hey good morning good afternoon good
evening no matter where you're coming
from hope you all are doing well welcome
back it's tuesday folks
we outside we online let's go
what's going on everybody welcome back
hope you all had a good weekend you're
in the u.s hope you had a good holiday
weekend hey
can we do a yolo today i don't know
we'll see if chat is tight tonight we'll
do a yolo i gotta be careful with these
jolos though we getting too close folks
i ain't trying to buy new bathing suits
this quick you know what i'm saying
you know what you know you know what i'm
saying i'm just i mean we'll if if we're
good we'll do it but like
it's getting a little too dangerous in
these streets
what's going on everybody welcome back
hope you had a good weekend excited to
see you all we had a good office hour i
feel like office hours pretty good we
answered a lot of questions
i'm glad to see you all back
tonight
tonight's where it gets real folks
after tonight ugh
after tonight you can build the api of
your dreams that does anything
and we're going to see how to put it
together how to pull all the pieces
together and not only will it be the api
of your dreams
but you can put it online
anyone will be able to use the api that
you build starting tonight that's right
folks we're learning how to build our
apis with express
we're learning the beginnings of crud
we're going to be able to do those reads
those gets
right
and then we're going to be able to put
all of that hard work on heroku so
anyone out there on the internets can
play with our api consume that content
get that json goodness
we're not going to jump right into it we
always gotta get a little bit of review
in
got to get a little bit of our our node
our back end review how things are
actually happening touching that event
loop just one more time and we're gonna
jump full bore into express we're gonna
start the beginnings of cred tonight
we're gonna start the beginnings of
putting our stuff live for others to see
and then thursday we finish up with the
rest of crud so we had a lot of fun
stuff to get into a lot of stuff to get
into tonight a lot of little things to
review and a lot of little things to do
we're gonna be coding along live this
evening so if you want to have all the
materials that i am going to be using
later today you want to make sure that
you're on our discord exclamation point
discord will give you that link in the
follow along materials channel once you
agree to the rules there's a channel
called the follow-on materials channel
you can grab all of our starter code
that's there there's also like even like
the finished product is already there
for you so if you're trying to like type
along or you're following along but you
missed something i have the complete
solution already in those files for you
as well
i'm ready this is this is
this is top three classes for me because
after tonight
you have the power
you you have the power to actually build
real stuff
that real people can use
and
i know the crud reading was tough
somebody on neko chat said the crud was
aptly named
i know the card reading is tough
i know some of you were able to work
through it without with the wolf pack my
wolf was going through it i know the
reading was rough
we're going to make it make sense
tonight we're going to make it sense
right going to make it make sense on
thursday and remember around these parts
we use
then we understand and then we build
with it and so tonight is about using it
seeing it starting to connect the little
dots here and there then we'll build up
that understanding over the next few
classes and then we'll start to build
real wild stuff
i'm excited for y'all folks this is
where the rubber meets the road it's
where you feel like you can actually
start to build real things and i want
that for each and every single one of
you you put in all this work just to get
to this moment right now
all right you put in all this work just
to get to this moment right now because
after tonight's class
you can build real stuff
cool
alrighty let's get into it as always
like to give folks a few seconds to get
in here
if you got some questions i got some
answers
hey
welcome back everybody
any advice or resources on regex
so with regex don't solve your code wars
using regex
try and solve them without it
any interview that has you solve a
coding challenge with regex run from
that company as fast as you possibly can
we're learning how to solve coding
challenges regex is not really a tool
that we use to do that it's a way to
manipulate strings and so you can learn
the basics just learn the basics through
just any tutorial you can find but don't
commit to solving the coding challenges
using regex uh try and do it even if
even if the number one answer is using
regex don't use it
it's a lot more fun to do with it out i
agree but it's also so we can practice
our data structures our algorithms fun
stuff like that
yeah
because you could do you could do all
the string problems you could do all a
lot of these problems just using regex
and then you get into an actual
interview and you try to bust out the
rejects they're like oh don't use regex
and you're like
so practice it without
are there any resources for data or
databases to create apis without instead
of compiling all the data ourselves i'm
sure there are cap but that's the fun
part
well not the fun part but it's it's
often the part that makes your api
differentiate from others right if
somebody else has already collected all
that data then there's probably already
an api for it and so figuring out how to
collect all the data is a whole other
class and of itself right you can get
into things like web scraping or some
other fun stuff to get that to get that
data
but that's not something that we'll
we'll probably cover
yeah but i i know some folks have built
some apis just from straight scratch i
know some of the bigger apis that use
like like they're based on like fantasy
characters they kind of crowdsource it
so there are a lot of things you could
do to get that data
hey caleb welcome
are we allowed to use any already
existing apis for 100 hours projects yes
if if the api itself is not like a
crucial part of your of your project
like if you're still building a full
stack web application and that api is
giving you some data that you need to
use then yeah by all means you can
incorporate those apis but don't have
that api be like the key portion of your
app
right if you're just using it to get
some data then that's totally fine
i missed you missed the last two classes
should i listen on this one yeah we're
gonna have enough review uh char chart
that you could probably get caught up
with what we covered last class uh in
the first hour or so and then we're
touching on all new stuff um but it's
not too wild if you missed the last last
week
yeah should you monetize your api hey
it's up to you
if youtube is anything there's so many
videos that's like monetize your apis
make money with apis well i guess i'm
doing something wrong i haven't been
making money with my apis yet but maybe
you can after tonight
luan we're really backed up on all that
stuff so just give us a little bit more
time we'll reach out to you
cool a few more questions and we'll get
started i always want to get folks that
are running from from work the chance to
get in
beyond said i'm ready let's go
can i change my 100 hours project after
i submit it sure um but make sure and
any other kind of homework submissions
that you give me the updated version
just so i have it
we put things like the cred tutorial on
our github or just the code wars in our
projects i'm a fan of putting everything
on github as long as you have a really
good readme for it
yeah
uh please post the massive js review to
youtube yeah i got you it's coming soon
i had to edit it down a little bit i'm
going to try editing this one a little
bit down and see if that helps with the
numbers
our content's really not made for
youtube i just put it on like i know
like youtube's like not something that
that we like
that we need to do well with but it does
a lot of folks have been finding us
through there so i'm kind of interested
in like if we kind of remove things like
i don't know like the five minutes that
are in between or some other stuff that
keeps the attention span going if that
would help more people find the video so
i'm editing it down a little bit and
then we'll post it i'll probably post it
tomorrow just because folks been asking
for it
uh will the car class be recorded no so
friday's class will not be recorded it's
one of the benefits of being live if you
can we'll do a couple more of them
cool
alrighty folks let's get into this
we got a lot of stuff to cover tonight
glad you're all here let's lock in we
got this if you haven't already please
go ahead and check in right
if you haven't checked in yet please go
ahead give the exclamation point check
in we'll give you the link for today
remember just typing exclamation point
checking doesn't do anything you gotta
click the link go to twitter like
retweet it remember the slate has been
wiped clean right slate has been wiped
clean
if you want the goodies that come at the
end you gotta be checking in hey
uh manny said first time joining in can
i join boot camp now and wait until next
season uh we have no idea if there will
be a next season or when they'll be next
season because we're only about halfway
through this current one so definitely
join our community you can actually
should play 100 devs to get everything
join the catch-up crew on discord we
have new folks that join us every single
day we have a wonderful supportive
community on discord that'll help you
catch up uh as you go at your own pace
cool
everybody thank you for checking in
this friday 6 p.m this friday 6 p.m
um
monty we'll get to it uh for the for
folks that asked about linkedin
if you weren't added in the first rounds
it's because you didn't have like your
profile photo and
your um like your profile filled out but
if you have everything filled out just
give us a little bit of time we're
really behind on a lot of stuff right
now we're just um we're kind of backed
up on a lot of kind of the the admin
stuff so give us a couple more days and
we'll get you in all right
car class this friday 6 p.m 6 p.m
so uh we're gonna come we're gonna have
an hour it's gonna be an hour we're
gonna do live car we did a few live
together during class but i want you to
see how you should formulate your cause
action result for each of your
behavioral and then each of your
eventually your every kind of technical
question will have its own acronym we
have car eu and prep so we're gonna do a
little bit of car and if we have a
little bit of time we will do one prep
as well
alto said tell people to stop adding me
on linkedin without messaging uh folks
stop outing alta on on linkedin without
messaging if somebody from 100 devs
tries to connect with you and they don't
have a message it is your duty to ignore
them
to to click no to click cancel to say
absolutely not
do not connect with folks on linkedin
without sending a message hey hello how
you why you're interested in connecting
with them
i can just say hey i'm also 100 dabs i'd
love to connect with you simple as that
don't be disrespectful send a message
not today
just
[Music]
[Laughter]
always always send a message when you go
to connect with someone it gives you the
option of sending a message don't send
the message independently that's a whole
different thing when you connect there's
a way to send a note a note yeah you put
it you put the note as you connect
some folks are saying that it doesn't
show the ui in the app then make sure
you're doing it from the desktop yeah
yeah some folks are saying don't use
mobile there's no no option great use
use the desktop version then yeah for
sure you absolutely have to send a note
cool all right car class this friday 6
p.m office hour sunday 1 p.m
we got a lot of good material to get
into today and thursday a lot of express
stuff to review and so make sure you're
coming to these office hours they're
jam-packed
all right networking i need you to bring
the networking back
i need you to bring the networking back
one coffee chat this week i'm not asking
for much i'm just just
just just one
this one
one yeah you know tiny
itsy bitsy coffee just one this one
having one on thursday hey that's
awesome did it before class oh
let's go
digital welcome
yeah
alrighty
just one just give me one
got two scheduled for thursday okay i
see a russy
and remember as you're scheduling these
wonderful coffee chats make sure you're
using the sheet exclamation point sheet
here in chat make sure you're using the
sheet
if you haven't finished your checklist
please make sure you finish the
checklist you can always do actually
point checklist to grab it uh one of my
favorite things is i always have up like
my
like my twitch page or my twitch my
twitch like i don't know it's it's
called the dashboard
and in the dashboard there's a part of
chat and so one of my favorite things is
like all throughout the day i see people
popping in the chat to use the commands
like they'll do exclamation point
checklist they'll do exclamation point
bank
uh so yeah know that you can always come
back to chat if you need those things
they're all commands here i see you all
throughout the day it's pretty pretty
cool
expand get out of here
all right remember you should be pushing
every day
you should be pushing every day
you should be doing a code wars every
day and you should be pushing that code
wars
live every single day remember our
recruiters love these green squares they
do they do they do and an easy way
to to pass that
sniff test right to pass that sniff test
right is to just be coding every day get
that code wars done every day make sure
you're part of the clan exclamation
point clan make sure you're climbing
that leaderboard make sure you're
pushing every day make sure you're
getting those delicious green squares
it's gonna pay off in the end big time
not only will be better prepared for
your technical interviews you are going
to have a github that looks clean
that
that recruiters are going to love to see
cool
if i can solve leak code easy brute
force should i do that instead uh knock
yourself out we'll be slowly
transitioning to leak code in the future
but for now we're still on the on the uh
the wonderful code wars train
did your first 6q today first try fairy
hey that's amazing congrats
all right submitting your work if you
haven't submitted the freelancing last
call for the freelancing submission
before we release the final numbers oh
boy i think we'll release the final
numbers tomorrow i just want to give
folks one last chance if you haven't
submitted your freelancing stuff please
submit it if you had something that was
like an hourly arrangement submit the
total hours that you think that you're
going to have like the total amount just
makes my life a little bit easier
yeah so last call so we can include your
numbers in the
final number it's big folks it's real
big it's way more than i thought it
would be
and if you haven't submitted your
checklist stuff 100 hours project stuff
your code war stuff i'll give you one
more day get it in
no worries i didn't see anything up
until right now you're good
all right
we also
today before class in the newsletter
in the newsletter uh there was a
secret raffle for vip
and i grabbed all the names right as
class started like right before i went
live i grabbed all the names there were
700 plus names before i started there's
like way more now because some people
come to chat and there's some there's
some snitches in chat they're like
they're like oh if you check the
newsletter today i don't know ho ho ho
and then everybody floods in and and
jumps into it so i got you got got
it's like i took it i took it before
before you all came in so if you open
the newsletter you would have found a
sheet to be entered into the raffle
uh for for vip so let's go ahead and run
this real quick
cymas2 congrats on your vip i'm going to
give it to you right
now vip
boom there you go
congratulations thank you for opening
the newsletter it really does mean a lot
i put all the goodies in the newsletter
it really does help when we try to
attract things like new sponsors and fun
stuff like that so all the goodies in
the newsletter thank you for the folks
that open it before each class
all right
we gotta have a talk folks
the
is going to become more and more
important
as we kind of get into this second phase
you can do exclamation point newsletter
exclamation point newsletter
if you need access to the newsletter
you have to click the link though don't
just type it in you got to click the
link to go sign up
as we move into this second
phase
right as we went to the second phase of
boot camp the second half
i need you to do the homework
okay
i need you to do it
uh i am going to be running class and
and with the assumption that you have
done the homework right that you've at
least
at least given it a good honest attempt
uh reading through it
doesn't mean you have to be perfect at
it does it mean that it has to
to to be you understand every single bit
but i'm going to expect that you've at
least gone through it that you've made
the good old 100 devs try
that if you got really stuck maybe you
went to mine will stream because they
went through the homework live
all right
you've done some things to just become
prepared
because we're going to start doing a lot
of things a lot more code along a lot
more like in the mukwit code and i can't
do that if you're not up to date on the
reading so
i'm going to give homework
as always i'm going to try to give you
at least like a week in between when
there's reading when there's reading i
try to give you like a week in between
and unless i think it's something that
you can get done pretty quickly
and i need you to come ready with that
because if you're not you're gonna
you're gonna be behind in class so you
gotta make some time for this homework
cool
now
a lot of this stuff is going to be heavy
don't worry
we're going to go over all the important
bits uh as we kind of go through them in
class so it should always be a first
pass
don't don't don't feel bad or lose sleep
if it doesn't click while you're going
through the homework come to class
that's what class is for
cool
all right
uh we mentioned last class about jake
archibald and phil roberts those two
videos i asked you to watch
just so you have that really deep
understanding of the event loop and
you've seen it you've seen it practiced
a few more times just by myself if you
haven't watched those two videos those
are foundational videos if you want to
be a back end engineer with node you
have to watch these videos they're that
important
and then i also just want to shout out
zell i know the cred reading can be
tough but zell's the best
honestly hands down
some of the best tutorials on the
internet they are one of the very few
folks that can make it somewhat
approachable that can um
cut through all the crap and just get
right to the the meaty stuff of it um so
please
if you haven't done the zell reading you
have to
i'm going to share all their socials and
stuff too they're one of the best folks
on the internet
when it comes to explaining what is some
very difficult stuff and so um i
assigned it the reading for homework you
need to go back you need to read it and
you'll see that i'll be assigning a lot
of their other stuff you'll see some of
the examples i use are
are kind of in the same vein because it
really is that good
cool
yeah his work is really more simplified
compared to other articles absolutely
it's just
it doesn't get better so please make
sure you're going through it
cool
alrighty
they have a lot of other tutorials yeah
so we'll we'll see them come up
throughout class but jump into the ones
you feel like you need to
cool
alrighty
now a lot of this stuff is coming up
a lot of stuff that we're going into a
lot of this new stuff
has to be in your anki
right has to be in your anki you got to
be doing banky on a regular basis
remember all those questions that are in
the bank they need to be an anki for you
now i'm going to eventually share
a sheet that has the answers
but remember
you get more out of it if you find the
answers on your own
but i know that some folks
um
don't have that privilege of time so i
will share
i will share
the answers to all of them
um
but
remember
you need to be doing banky every day
whether you've built the answers
yourself or you're going to use one of
the the solutions right make sure that
you're putting in time every single day
you have to start now
you have to start now so by the time
we're in the thick of the hunt things
are locked and loaded
cool so every day as you're doing the
cold wars you should be pushing it to
github and you should be doing some anki
if you don't know what to do for any
given day you should be doing those
three things code wars push it to github
and
spaced repetition
every single day
if you only have
enough time to do your code wars push
and space repetition i prefer you do
that than read the homework
or do the homework
like that's how serious this is like
this is something we need to be doing
every single day you need to be finding
the time for it it's that important
because i know a lot of y'all
are doing the homework
where's your bank yet where's your code
wars at
come on now
gotta be doing it every day
we gotta be doing it every day
i'm not saying i'm not seeing that i
look at some of your githubs you give me
your games i look at them i'm not seeing
green squares everywhere
i don't know
i don't know y'all said you wanted it
y'all said you wanted it i'm telling you
how to get it
the folks that have been to my previous
cohorts that take the bank seriously
those are the ones that magically get
jobs without a technical interview
because when they're in those
behaviorals when they're in those first
technical rounds that aren't the coding
challenge
they just sound good it comes out like
butter they've been practicing for
months
please let those good things happen to
you by doing your cold wars in the bank
every day
my cold war solutions are garbage but
i'm getting my green squares hey let's
go
we're baddies we write bad code i don't
care get it done i love it
write your bad code be a baddie and then
look at the solutions
look at the solutions you're a betty
right back code hey guess what we can go
look at the solutions when we're done
and then we can add those solutions to
our anki and we keep it rolling we keep
it rolling
[Laughter]
tina has entered the chat hey be like
tina exactly
cool
all right
we're going to jump into the back end
folks we're going to do a little bit of
review but before we jump into the back
and we need to talk about javascript
all right
what do i mean by javascript is single
threaded we'll do a little bit of review
and we're going to jump into express
folks
synchronous one thing at a time exactly
javascript is single threaded it's
synchronous it does one thing at a time
things should block we do a lot of stuff
on the internets that doesn't block when
we scroll
or like when we like something and then
keep scrolling how are we able to keep
scrolling we're waiting for the like to
like to go from like gray to red right
all these things that we should be
having to sit there and wait for our set
timeout our set intervals we're not just
sitting there waiting for those things
to happen we're able to keep moving out
throughout the rest of our program do
other stuff but if javascript is
synchronous
single threaded
it should block we should only be able
to do one thing at a time and then we
should have to wait
but why
why are we able to do things that don't
block
kind of i jumped at it for a second
why are we able to do things that should
block
yeah
we're handing off all of these things
all these asynchronous tasks to the
environment
right
the
environment and with the environment
we're not talking about this
we're talking about my favorite gif of
all time
this
right it's where we're running our
javascript that matters our javascript
is running in the browser and since our
javascript is running in the browser the
environment is the browser and since
we're running our javascript in the
browser we get access to a bunch of apis
a bunch of web apis that enable us to do
all that asynchronous stuff that
javascript on its own could not do
because it is single threaded it is
synchronous and blocking
so
with
our javascript running in the browser we
get access to all of these web apis what
are some of the web apis that we get
access to
since our javascript is running in the
browser what are some things that we've
we've talked about so far that we get
access to yeah the dom is one uh fetches
are another set timeout set interval all
these things that we were using for so
long that just felt like regular
javascript
come to find out actually aren't part of
javascript they're all web apis that we
get access to since we're running our
javascript in
the
browser now
one of those web apis that we saw
was set time out so here i have a normal
function it's going to console.log
house1 i have another function it's
going to console.log house2 and another
function that's going to console.log
house 3.
if we look at this set timeout
it has no delay
by today
no delay
right
so no delay so we would expect
right as the rational beings that we are
that
when we call house one if a console
house one
we call house two we would see the
console log for house two
and when we consolidate house three we
would see house three so we expect to
see one two
three however that doesn't happen when
we console log this we can go ahead and
open up our console
we open up our console and we paste this
in
we get one
three
two
why the heck do we get one three two
when there is no delay by today
oh i love this yes
so many good answers
we're handing this set timeout is not
javascript it is a web api which means
since we're trying to use web api it has
to be handed off to the browser the
browser is what enables us to do those
asynchronous tasks those asynchronous
tasks are completed and then we push the
result like whatever we get back the
promise that comes back from that web
api is put where
where does that promise get put
people pay attention to people watching
videos let's go
let's put in the queue
exactly task q job q micro mac it
doesn't matter it gets put into the
queue we'll just say q for now
cool
and when do we eventually get that
value out of the
queue like when do we like go to the
queue and get it out
yeah
and the stack is empty
all right we learning are we outside
let's go
yeah when the stack is entered we can go
back to the queue and get stuff out the
queue so what would look like it should
be one two three is not because this two
gets passed off the web api and there's
no way to get the response back until
the stack is empty so no matter how fast
this is meaning zero delay
it's still going to run after the things
that come further down the page only
once the stack is empty do we get the
stuff out of the queue now we got got
due to the event loop right when we had
this
zero
even though there was no delay we got
got because these values were being
handed off
to the browser the browser executes
these asynchronous tasks it then
takes the response
right puts it in the queue and
eventually we get it out of the queue
once the stack is empty
right so we don't have to to go and tag
all of our jabroni friends we actually
know why we got got
and it's because things are being handed
off
the browser to be done asynchronously
before coming back to us
cool so to really understand how this is
happening like what is actually working
we need two key data structures and we
kind of already mentioned them and if
you're new around here this is a really
fast review of something i spent two or
three classes on that's why everybody
knows the answers and that's why we're
going a little bit fast is because we've
already seen this for two or three
classes so this is review before we jump
into tonight's topic
cool
hey man
champion of the sun
exactly we need cues and
stacks
stacks and cues
right
so a queue
is just like a real world line if you're
the first in the queue you're the first
out of the queue think about getting in
line to buy tickets at a movie theater
right remember those places movie
theaters you would go you'd pay a lot of
money and then they put the same thing
you put on your tv but in front of you
um
they did these they had this um
what was that food called again
um
popcorn they had popcorn
and they had these pretzels but they
were really small and dry as [__]
and so people would go they pay a lot of
money
and they would eat dried dry pretzels
and
popcorn
cool all right so
if you're in line to buy tickets
right in line to buy tickets i love the
movie theaters by the way i'm just i'm
just joshing i love the movies i love
going to the movies uh you go to the
queue right you're the first person in
line to buy your tickets if you're the
first person and you're the first person
out it is a first in first out data
structure and we have them very easily
in javascript if we had an array
and we pushed the value into the array
this two that we pushed in first would
be the first in which means when we
shift it would be the first
out so we can build a queue very easily
in javascript just using an array
pushing pushing pushing pushing as many
values as we want and then we would
shift them off meaning the first value
pushed in would be the first value out
so if we were to actually alert the
result of our shift we would see two
because two is the first in it is the
first
out
i'm gonna go see top gun after class i
heard it's pretty phenomenal here's like
like the quintessential blockbuster so
i'm excited i'm gonna go see it too
hopefully
all right the other data structure we
need to talk about is a stack a stack is
a last in first out
data structure meaning that think about
pancakes you stack pancakes one on top
of the other
and the last one on the stack is the
first one you serve
right the last pancake on the stack is
the one that you serve
now unless you're a monster if you're a
monster you might try and pull out the
bottom one off the stack but we don't do
that around these parts so a stack of
pancakes is a lasting first stop meaning
the last thing on the stack is the first
thing
out
cool
we can replicate this pretty easily
pretty easily
inside of javascript using just a lovely
array again so we have an array we can
push 2 and 5 into the array
and then we can pop off values meaning
we're popping them off the back so that
means we put the 2 in we put the 5 in
since the 5 was the last in it is the
first out and when we pop we would get
five
cool
first in first out is a what
a q nice and then last in first out
is a what
stack nice and we need to understand
these cues and stacks to understand
what's happening in the event loop but
they also are pretty pretty
quintessential data structures that
we're going to use in just a few weeks
when we start to really grind our data
structures and algorithm understanding
so they're going to come back with
advantages we're going to use them a lot
in our coding examples
so yeah something to know that we're
using now as a from a theoretical
standpoint we're gonna use them for real
for real and not too short of a period
of time
all right so back to getting got right
so now we understand stacks you
understand cues we got got with the set
timeout example let's figure out what
actually was happening uh when we got
got
cool
so
our javascript is running in the browser
we have uh this wonderful environment
that we're running in
and this wonderful environment gives us
access to a bunch of web apis
and when we go to use those web apis
we pass off those actions to the what
like when we want to use the dom or we
want to use set timeout set interval
whenever we want to use fetch any of
these web apps when we want to use them
what are we handing those actions off to
we're in the browser yes we're talking
about the browser but what specifically
is going to handle all those actions for
us
yeah the event loop the event loop is
going to handle this uh in the browser
specifically chrome we're using lib
event lib event is all the code that's
been written for us that's going to help
us handle uh this process where we have
these events that are happening that are
enabled to happen because we're running
our javascript in the browser we hand
off all this stuff to the web apis but
we're really starting to hand stuff off
through lib event waiting for those
responses to come back and we generate
the event loop
cool
so the event loop monitors the callback
queue and the job queue and decides what
needs to be pushed to the call
stack
what the heck does that mean
the crowd was tough
it's such like a a quid essential video
that like yeah you're right they were
pretty tough
what
this is disrespectful yes it is
disrespectful
the event loop monitors the callback
queue
and the job queue and decides what needs
to be pushed onto the call stack
so
the call stack is our what
it's our what it's our last in first out
stack where all the things that we're
trying to execute in the program are
being run
and what goes into the queues
what goes into the queues
what winds up making its way into the
queues
yeah the the result of these web apis
now pretty much every one of the web
apis returns a promise so the callback
queues are full of promises that have
returned from these web apis whether it
was trying to use the dom or whether it
was to use set timeout whether it was to
make a fetch and so we get all these
things back
from the web apis they get put into the
queue and then once our stack is empty
we can start pulling stuff out of the
queue to execute remember this is all
like a very
simple overview you can definitely nerd
out on all this stuff
we have uh phillips video we have jake's
video that really go into the meat
potatoes of all this so you have to
watch to fully understand it mine right
here is just a simplified version of it
just to get to the meat and potatoes but
you definitely want to spend some time
getting your claws into those two big
videos
i tried to put this screen in my head
hey i'm glad to hear
i watched ten times i still don't fully
understand it that's okay
that's okay
if you understand the basics right like
the stuff we're about to cover right now
that's good enough
as you start to dig deeper into these
things it'll make a little bit more
sense but uh
as we are right now
to be like a really like to write the
code we're about to write for the rest
of program
do we really need to understand like do
i need to know how this is done like
it's weird to say this right like if do
i'm gonna be writing express code until
kingdom come do i really understand that
do i need to understand exactly what's
happening here
not really
i could go my whole life
as probably a full stack developer
without really understanding this but
once you do understand this things start
to make more sense
like for me when i found out the dom
didn't come with javascript my mind was
blown like
blown to smithereens and i had to figure
out how that could be true
and would be hey what's up all right
and so
i
took some time to understand what the
heck was going on
and so we're going to see this event
loop here and we see the event when it
comes to node so knowing at least the
basics helps you understand what the
heck is actually going on and when you
run into some weird bugs or issues
this could maybe be the solution to some
of them
cool
all right so
here we have some code that we want to
execute
and the main is just what's going to
tell us to kick off our code so on the
call stack is a line of code that says
basically run our code
right and so
the very first line that we're going to
run is called is a console log where
we're going to paper delivered the house
one we want to be printed to the console
and so that first line of code executes
and put on the call stack is the log for
house one
now the event loop runs
and we're back to the point where this
code is there and so once we realize
that we've done the loop there's nothing
there this line is here
boom we run that line of code and we see
that first console log of delivered to
house one print it to the console
then we get to the next line of code
that needs to be run
that set timeout's put on the call stack
we do our lovely little loop it's time
to execute this line of code
but set timeout doesn't get executed by
javascript where does set timeout have
to go
it has to get handed off to the browser
has to get handed off to where the web
apis are going to be run by the browser
right and so the loop runs and when it
runs we see that the set timeout comes
off the call stack the web apis are now
going to handle it and the cool thing is
we could have a bunch of web apis that
are all running at the same time maybe
this set timeout should take uh uh uh 10
minutes who cares the browser's handling
it right the browser is handling it
all right the browser's handling it and
whenever we get a whenever the set
timeout is done
we know what gets returned
is going to be put into the queue
all right so our event loop continues to
run
we had this third line of javascript
that executes
we see that log house 3 is now on the
call stack and around the same time the
set timeout the return from that web api
is put into the queue
right it's put into the queue
now
what will run first
log house 3
or the promise that came from the set
timeout what runs first
log house 3 exactly we always run
whatever's in the call stack before we
even think about the queue
cool
so we run we see
console log of house 3 is put to the
console
the event loop runs we don't need that
main to trigger anymore we don't need
that main to help us run any lines of
code anymore because all the lines of
code have been executed right like we've
ran every single line of code that was
here so the main popped off during that
past the loop and then once the call
stack is empty
we can go ahead and grab the promise
that came back from the set time out
and since this is a queue
the first thing in is the first thing
out the set timeout will be the thing
that's put on the call stack
and
once the loop runs we execute that
promise and we see log of house
two
uh if if it needs to run again will
another main be created if you refresh
yes
yeah
so the idea here is that there's really
just two things that are happening
if we execute a line of code it is put
onto the call stack
if it's something that javascript can't
run on its own
there might be an api that we can use
from the browser that will enable us to
do that thing and so we saw that with
the set timeout javascript itself could
not execute the set timeout so it handed
that set timeout to the web apis
then we keep going through our code
right we keep adding stuff to the call
stack eventually
eventually
the browser's done executing the set
timeout
and whatever gets out whatever gets
returned whatever it gets returned from
that web api gets put into the queue
eventually we're done executing all of
our code
and the call stack is empty
and once the cost act is empty on the
next revolution of the event loop we
grab the first thing inside of the task
queue or job queue whatever you want to
call it because there's a bunch of
different things here and we put that on
the call stack
we could have a bunch of
returns here we could have a bunch of
different web apps we could have a set
timeout that took
like 10 seconds five seconds three
seconds and what would have happened is
that three would have executed first
then five
and ten and since the queue is a first
in first out data structure whatever
finish first is going into that into
that queue and will be put onto the call
stack
first
we need to know which line of code is
handing off to web apps it's just the
set timeout itself the browser is smart
enough to know like hey you're trying to
do something that javascript doesn't
come with but since you're running it in
the browser i understand what you mean
when you use document i understand what
you mean when you do set timeout and it
knows to hand all that stuff off to the
browser
now what's happening underneath the hood
here and all the mean code that's
happening how the v8 engine and lib
event is handling all this
nah ain't for me
you could spend your whole career on
just like lib event like you could like
literally spend a lot of time building
just that you could build just focusing
on these web apis but for us that's too
that's too
rich for the things that we want to do
which is to build credit apis deliver
business value to our to our customers
and our
our our hiring partners right
does that mean that seconds in set
timeout is not exactly due to how long
we take the call stack to be empty yeah
now we're getting into some real stuff
yeah
yeah now we're getting some real stuff
is three seconds three seconds i don't
know
it's the minimum exactly the minimum
time there you go exactly
not the exact time
all right
cool so we have this lovely
we have this a lovely
ability to execute our code
if javascript knows how to handle it
it's put on the call stack if it's the
last thing this will be the first out
eventually if we get to something that
javascript can't handle there might be
an api that we can use by the browser
it'll hand that off to the browser the
browser will do it eventually it'll
return something most likely a promise
that promise gets put into the queue
once the call stack is empty we start
pulling stuff out of the queues putting
them on the stack
beautiful
and like i said this is a simplified
simplification of it you definitely want
to go back and watch phillips video uh
it is it is
way more detailed it has a lot more meat
here but this is the gist the basics
and this is helpful to know because
we're no longer running our javascript
in just the browser
we are running our javascript in a
different environment
the videos are linked in the slides as
long as you have the slides you can get
to the videos
they're also in discord for the
following materials today right so
not only are we running our javascript
in the browser we're gonna be using our
javascript in a new environment
uh that is
a bit different so
quick question
does javascript have access to the dom
natively built in
nope
javascript needed web apis to handle
a bunch of asynchronous stuff so the dom
set timeout all these things were not
actually javascript they were things
that the browser could handle for us via
web apis
and so
javascript is a language that can only
do what the hosting environment allows
if
the browser didn't come with settimeout
if the browser didn't come with fetch if
the browser didn't come with the dom
we don't have access to it
via javascript it was only because we
were running javascript in the browser
that we got all of those goodies
so
as we start to think about the back end
and we start to think about servers
right the difference between a
client-side browser and a server the
server has some very unique needs
what do servers need
i'm jumping too quick here what do
servers need
go ahead and chat for me
yeah
servers are supposed to serve
they're supposed to serve
and so to serve they need to be able to
hear the requests for the things that
you're asking for and be able to serve
up
responses right and so to do that they
need access to a network where they can
hear your requests coming in
and be able to respond and they need
access to the disk because the files
that they're sending to you are not
magic they're not coming poof out of the
air the html files the css files
javascript files that they're serving up
to you exist on a drive of some sort
whether it be a hard drive or a solid
state drive whatever it is they need to
be able to go grab that stuff off the
disk and send it to you as part of the
response
and so javascript does not have the
ability to do this javascript cannot
access the files on your computer it
cannot access the network it'd be pretty
disastrous if it could
so what if there was a hosting
environment a place where we could run
our javascript that gave us disk access
that gave us network access
10 second warning
what if we existed in a world
where we could have disk access where we
could have
network access
available to us
so
oh baby
[Music]
i swear the the first 100 devs
convention is just a rave that's it
we're not coding we're not talking
eat sleep
rave repeat that's all we're doing
it's just gonna be it's gonna be all the
bangers from class it's just that song
the entire conference
and we're getting whatever she has
whatever she had we're getting it
bangers only
all right
that's right we have an environment
where we could
she had dominoes
deep fried penguins
leo's becoming a bad influencer
hey i never promised i was a good good
person i i've actually told you the
quite the opposite of that i'm a monster
that chooses to be good
on certain days but hey when the rave
and the raves when the rays popping
that's it's all that matters you know
[Laughter]
my entertainer has to bust out
you know you got you gotta let it get
you i gotta let it fly every once in a
while
all right so we have this lovely
environment called node
and uh node enables us
to have access to the disk that enables
us to have access to the network and
when we went to their website to learn
more about node we got this crap
known as the javascript runtime bill and
chrome's v8 engine
what
javascript runtime built on chrome's v8
engine
why
why do they write like this
why can't they explain stuff
please don't ever do this don't be
disrespectful once you once you make it
right like once once you once you're in
the position where you're you're in
control of like
what's on the front page of something
that you've built for the past 10 years
please please put it just like you can
have this know what have this
have a little asterisk
and then in the asterisk just write it
out give me a paragraph i want to know
exactly what the hell you're talking
about all right
so the same [__] that lets us run
javascript in the browser can now be
used to run javascript on servers
desktops and everywhere else right so
the javascript runtime it's just the
environment like where we're running our
javascript
right where we're running our javascript
can now be used that give us access to
all that good stuff and we're still
using the v8 engine the v8 engine is the
thing that helped us do
a lot of the heavy lifting in the
browser
remember the engine is more than just a
few things right like we think of when
we think of the v8 engine we're thinking
about taking about the javascript that
we're writing to communicate with each
other that javascript has to be broken
down into something that the computer
can understand right so the va engine
comes with the thing that can help us
break down that javascript people might
call it a compiler whatever you want to
call it
but it also has a lot of other stuff
memory management garbage cleaning all
this stuff that joshua just doesn't
really have or is really good at doing
came with this engine so the same engine
that we're using the browser we can also
use in this other hosting environment
called node
i talked about this difference between
an engine and a compiler engine just
comes with more garbage cleaning memory
management all that fun stuff
all right
now
node came with a bunch of fun stuff
we're gonna just kind of get through
this real quick and we're gonna take our
break note came with a bunch of fun
stuff but specifically
specifically it came with some really
core modules like http and fs or file
system and those core modules do the
heavy lifting for us it's what enables
us to listen to network requests to
generate responses
right it's what enable us to look on the
drives and and get the files right
without these core modules we wouldn't
be able to do the things that we wanted
to do when we set out to use node
but we're not just limited to those core
modules we also have millions of other
modules that we can use via npm or other
package managers like yarn et cetera
where there are literally millions of
other things that people have written
that we get access to when we run our
javascript in our node environment
cool now
the stuff that's doing the heavy lifting
in node is no longer web apis because
we're not in the browser it's cnc plus
plus apis
and so these cnc plus plus apis are like
heavy stuff like things that are like
battle tested tried and true super fast
and just because we run our javascript
in this environment we get access to
them we get access to the va engine we
get all this asynchronous and event loop
stuff from lib which is a little bit
different than lib event we get access
to all these other things that enable us
to listen to http requests talk to our
file systems all that wonderful stuff
and it's blazingly fast because it's
actually cnc plus but just like we had
web apis in the browser we have cnc plus
plus apis that give us access to all
this wonderful wonderful things
cool
last week we we wrote a simple node
server right just using those core
modules and it worked we were able to
make a request and get an html file back
we saw a slightly more complex version
of this and we asked ourselves we asked
ourselves
all right
this is a back end
this is the back end
right
it's a back end
but how can we clean it up
how can we clean it up
y'all nasty
express
we can use express to make that hot mess
of a file make a little bit more sense
we could introduce a little bit of
architecture a little bit of cruddiness
into the way we think about building our
applications and when we introduced the
crowd when we introduced express we
start to be able to build the apis of
our dream we'll be able to build the
applications that we wanted to build
since we first started 100 so when we
come back from the break we're going to
jump into express
but before we jump into express we got
to revisit how the internet works we
have to talk about like what are these
applications actually doing so we're
going to put our five minutes on the
clock
if you're new around these parts at the
top of every hour we take a break i like
to be hydrated and healthy as much as we
possibly can so if you're able please
get up move around hydrate and we'll be
back in five minutes alrighty let's get
into it so
we talked about this idea of coming back
to how does the internet work because
what we want to be able to do
is we want to be able to walk through
all this cruddy goodness that is
happening
and so we're going to talk through how
the internet works and when we started
talking about the internet originally
what the heck was the internet
where we say the internet was
it was a wire exactly it was a wire and
this wire
connected two different kinds of devices
or the two different kinds of devices
that it connected
ash jeeves
yeah connected client-side devices
and it connected
server-side
now these are just two different
computers that are on opposite sides of
the wire we had a client and we had a
server now somebody give me like a a
website a website that we used
back in the day or currently what's give
me some give like a fun website that we
would go to just so we can maybe see
some of this in action
can't go to domino's geocities is down
all right i saw my phone
i see my i see some folks have maybe
watched last class we'll go with it
neopets
let's go to neopets
all right we go to neopets boom
go immobile nah you gotta you gotta be
uh in the browser to do neopets all
right so we went to neopets
and something very specific happened
uh we typed in neopets.com
and it took us here
how did this happen also why is there
not https
what is going on neopets
this merch is fired up hold up look at
this
i might buy this hold on
yo this merch is wild
your neopets are dying
[Laughter]
it's so true they all dead dead
yo if this wasn't red and black i would
i would rock this for sure
i ain't trying to get got for wearing
this where i'm from but
this is fire give me this on all black
i'll wear it your neopets are dying oh
yeah
let's go
that's fire i'm not gonna lie i'm
fronting at all i'd wear that hard
all right
so we went to neopets.com
what the neopets.com
and uh we did something very specific
we went to something very very we did
something very specific like we're
talking about like what happened here
what did we do
oh dragon said yeah we sent a request so
we were in our browser
and our browser
actually should probably do this here
our browser
was running on our client-side device uh
my client-side device right now is just
my laptop and so
i made the request from the browser
running on my client-side device and
this request
made its way to neopets server
now there is some code
running on this server that did what
there is some code running on the server
that did what
yeah
it responded it heard the requests
and it
responded to that request and so there
was some code here
there was some code here that heard the
request
and then responded
and what did it respond with at first
like what did the server respond with at
first like what was the first thing that
it probably responded with
yeah html
and so we typed in neopets.com
we made a request to neopets server
they heard our requests
and responded with that html5 we can
actually see that if we go ahead and we
open up the inspector
and we go to the network tab
when we refresh this page
we'll see that we made a request for the
html file
but then look at all these other
requests that were made
right all these other requests were
probably linked through
the
the html like in the html file it asks
for jquery it asks for the css it asks
for all the images so all of these
[Music]
yada yada said neopets added to the
potential clients list
yeah you couldn't do them like that you
couldn't do it like that
[Music]
[Laughter]
all these requests are now going to be
requests that have to go where
where do all these requests have to make
them make their way to
yeah
all those requests have to make their
way
to the server
all right and the server has to have
some code
that is set up
to handle
that request
now
i made the request
through which interface my initial
request was the interface that i used to
make my request
it was a url exactly
i typed in
neopets.com into my browser and i hit
enter
that url was the interface
to my what
i use i always use interface with a very
specific thing
you always see me use the word interface
when i'm talking about apis exactly so
there was some code
that was running on the server that
could hear the requests
right they could hear the requests
and when it heard the requests
it figured out how to respond and it
responded
if i'm saying that the interface was the
url and there was some code that
responded what do you think i'm going to
start calling that code the code that
can hear the requests
figure out the response and respond what
am i going to call that
here
i'm going to call it my api
the simple interfaces will be the urls
right remember api is just a simple
interface for something complex
right
simple interface for something complex
so i typed in a url which was my simple
interface
and some complex stuff is happening the
code that's over here is doing some
complex stuff to generate the response
and so the code that i'm going to write
i'm going to call my api
and the interface for what this api can
do
is urls
right we type in a url
that makes a request to our server and
our server is set up
to hear that request that's an ear
our server is set up to hear that
request and when it hears that request
our api or the code that we write
knows what to do because we coded it
right we said all right if you hear this
request i want you to do this very
specific thing
if you hear this other kind of request i
want you to do this specific thing and
so simply right simply by listening
and and free kind of writing what we
want to have happen we can build up all
the stuff that we want our application
to do
right
all that we've been doing
every web application that you've ever
used
from neopets to dominoes to whatever
has always just been a request
and a response
and so every single thing that we're
doing pretty much in the web can be
boiled down into a few very specific
kinds of requests
when we typed in neopets neopets.com
we made a very specific request to our
server
what type of request do we make to our
it was a get request exactly we said hey
give us some information we want some
stuff give us some stuff get me some
stuff
so by just typing in the url and hitting
enter we made a get request to our
server
and there was some code
there is some code running on our server
that i'm going to call my api
there is some code running on my server
that could hear that get request
and when it heard the get request
what was this coded to do if we're
talking about neopets right and we're
talking about neopets when we typed in
neopets.com we hit enter we made that
get request
to neopets server what was the code we
can't see the code maybe we could figure
it out because the site's pretty wild
um what was that code set up to do when
it heard that get request what was it
going to do
is going to respond but had to do some
stuff before it could respond
it had to go and get the stuff
right it had to go and get the
index
dot html file
i had to go get that file and it had to
get that file
from the disk or the drive where that
file was stored
right
and once it got that file what did it do
with it
yeah
it responded with it
and then the browser was able to use
that file
right is able to use that file to show
us the beginning of neopets website so
we typed in neopets.com
and we hit enter
that made a get request
to neopet server
there was some code
on neopet server that said hey when
someone makes a get request
go get this file
and respond with it
it's the core of how the web works
i i have a a a promise that i told you
that i said that once you learn a few
things you can build whatever you want
and this is one of those things once you
understand that when you type in a url
you hit enter you're making a get
request to a server
and we can code our servers right
we can code our servers
to hear that request and to know what to
do when it hears it
right when it hears that request
we get the we are in control of what it
does
and
what neopets did it said hey when you
typed in neopets.com
and hit enter
it was coded to give us the index.html
right
so we could think through this a little
bit a little bit more deeper some folks
are saying like where does it get the
file from let's think about it
this server
is just the what the server is just the
what
a computer yep server is just a computer
and on this computer just like any other
computer is gonna be a lot of stuff
there's probably gonna be like a cpu
there's probably gonna be some ram
um but there's probably also gonna be a
what
yeah like a like a solid state drive
an ssd like a place where we're storing
our files right
maybe a hard drive but it's it's 2022
right we got to start using ssd sometime
right so there's some sort of drive
where we store all of our files
where is the html actually stored
like where like if we said the server
has the html files where are all the
html files
yeah they're on they're on this drive
right they're on this drive like on that
drive are all the html files all the
files that we're going to need to load
neopets.com
so
when we type in neopets.com
and we hit
enter
we know that we're making a
get request
that get request
makes it all the way to neopets server
and there is some code
running on this server
that can hear the requests
and generate the response i call that
code
my api
the reason i call my api is because an
api is a simple interface or something
complex the simple interface
right the simple interface was typing in
the url
right
typing in neopets.com was the simple
interface that requested made all the
way to neopet server there is some code
right there was some code
that heard that request there was some
code running that said hey
if they make a get request
right
and it's the main route
what do we want to do
if there's a get request it's on the
main page it's the main route they're
making get requests to what do we want
to do
if this server heard a get request what
do we want to do some of you are jumping
right to the response we're not there
yet
the server just heard a get request come
in for the main page
what do we need to do
well first we know that we want to
respond but we need something to respond
with
so the very first thing we have to do
is go and get the html file
and that html file
is sitting
on our ssd so we have to go
and get the file that's sitting on the
ssd sitting on our drive that's sitting
on that computer
once we find that file
right once we find that file
then
we can respond with it
now if this was a node server i don't
think neopets is using node but if this
was a node server
what would enable us to go and find that
html file that's on the on the disk or
on the drive or on the ssd
yeah the fs module the file system
module is what would enable the code
running on this server to go and get
that html file
and then once we had that html file we
could respond with it
so the simple interface was the url we
typed the neopets.com but all this stuff
happened on the server that's why i call
it an api it's a simple interface that
does something complex we made a get
request by typing in a url and hitting
enter that was the simple
interface
that request made it to the server it
heard that request and it did a lot of
complex stuff it had to go and get the
file off of the drive and to get that
file and then respond with it
right
and the beauty is that since our server
is running node we have access to the
http module which enables us to hear the
request and generate a response we have
access to the file system module which
enables us to go and get that html file
and we're able to respond with it
right
renault said what if the page is dynamic
what if what if
when
what if you were already logged in let's
take a let's take one more step what if
we were already logged in right we're
already logged in i go to the main page
and on the main page it says hey
leon
all right what if i'm already logged in
and i i load the main page and it says
hey leon
well then
this part right here
the get request
might have more steps
it might have more steps now instead of
just going and getting
the um
the html file from the
ssd or the hard drive whatever it may be
maybe we have to go and
get my name
from a database
maybe i have like a user id but maybe my
name like leon might be stored in the
database so we might have to like go
somewhere else
get the information about the logged in
user
plug that into the html file and then
respond with it
so what happens over here on the server
we hear the get but what actually
happens like the steps like the first
step the second step the third step the
fourth step the fifth step the sixth
step all the steps before it responds
we get to code out
we get to say you know what just grab
the html file and respond or we could
say you know what go to the database get
the number of neopets that they've
killed
right
plug that into the html and then respond
right so
the idea here
right the idea here
is that we are control when we are
building out our api
we are in control of the steps that
happen what do we want to have happen
when we hear that get request that
simple interface data typed in
neopets.com
they had no idea what we were going to
give them back that is in our control
but this is the fundamentals of how the
internet works
we make requests
and our servers are set up to hear those
requests to generate those responses
right
and we get to control
what it does when it hears that request
and how it actually responds we are in
control when we are building out our api
our crud api we are in control of all
right we heard a get request what does
the server do when it hears that request
and the the secret sauce is in what we
decide to do
and over the next few classes we're
going to learn how to do all the things
that you might want to do
and to hear all the different requests
that can be made right and i'm here to
tell you
it's not a lot
once you learn how to do four things you
can build whatever the heck you want so
let's talk about those four things
cool
so
zell had a
wonderful
right
right um we zell had this wonderful bar
in in their tutorial and i just want to
make sure that we took some time just to
say it out loud because it's really
important all right
is a set of rules that allow programs to
talk to each other the developer creates
the api on the server and allows the
client to talk to it
right
set of rules that allow programs to talk
to each other
the developer creates the api so we're
going to create the api
right we're going to create the api
that's running on our server that can
hear all these different kinds of
requests and then all the different
clients right all the different clients
can talk to it right that's our api
right at a core level that's what we are
doing
we are writing something right
that allows all these different clients
to talk to the code that we wrote and
when we hear the requests we generate
the responses
so
here i have
some lovely server site so sorry some
lovely
client-side code
all right
some client-side code
and this client-side code maybe a little
bit bigger
uh enables me to enter in a rapper's
name
so let's put in 21
savage
and i'm going to click
i don't i don't think it's friday hold
on oh there we go sorry just took a
little while because i think a lot of
you are on it right now
i clicked and i got back 21 savage's
birth name
right
i was able to put in let's put in
chance
the wrapper
you know you know
let's go ahead and click
and then we got their their name back
right their birth name back and so this
is a very simple
api that i built and that we're going to
build together so this is a simple
client that's like actually i'm pointing
at the screen like you can see me
putting out the screen um
it's a simple
client this is client side this is on my
computer but this api
is actually hosted on the internets
right it's actually on the internets and
so
we're going to build out our own server
today our own api that can listen for
different kinds of requests
generate responses
right and that's what we're building up
to so i have a client it could be any
client you could be running this
client-side code on your computer on on
your phone doesn't matter we could all
be consuming the application that i
built and we're going to build it
together tonight so
we're going to build out this api right
that enables
all the different clients out there to
interact with our server and when the
server hears those requests we're gonna
it's gonna know what to do
gonna know what to do
all right now
i said
i said that there's really only four
things that we have to worry about
and when it comes to making requests to
our server it really is just four
different things that we can do
we can make something
we can get something we can change
something or we can remove something
of every single web application you have
ever interacted with has really only did
these four things
when we were using it we were making
something
getting something
changing something or removing something
and that's it
and we can actually break down pretty
much any app that you use on a regular
basis really just into those four
things now
when we're making something
there there are actually like the
requests that the computer understands
like the requests that go across
remember we're talking about this client
server model this wire
right the way that this works the way
that we're able to send
requests
and get responses is because it's using
something called what
yeah
using http or the hypertext transfer
protocol
right the hyper text transfer protocol
this
ability to send requests and generate
responses is what we're using to send
those requests and to generate those
responses we know this breaks down into
like
tcp and ip and all this like very heavy
stuff you can spend your whole career on
we just get to take advantage of it and
use it right
and so we know that our requests and our
responses are using this hypertext
transfer protocol
and this http protocol actually enables
you to do a few different kinds of
requests right the requests that that go
across
and come back right those requests and
responses there's really like four
things we're doing
uh using that protocol
we are posting we are getting we are
putting and we are deleting these are
the requests that make sense when we're
using the hypertext transfer protocol
right but instead of just saying post
git put delete we've given them some
names
when we're posting we're creating when
we're getting we're reading when we're
putting we're updating and when we're
deleting we're deleting right we have a
a good euphemism for this called crud
once you understand
that every single app pretty much every
single app that you've ever used is just
a crud app where you're creating
something reading something updating
something or deleting something you can
build whatever the heck you want you can
incredibly build whatever
you want
so
supposed to get the puts deletes are
like the technical term that http
recognizes right but for us we're going
to say creating reading updating and
deleting and so let's talk through like
an actual app where we'll be creating
reading updating and deleting we're
going to take a really popular app let's
take
instagram
right let's take a really popular app
and show how it's really just
these four different kinds of requests
so
if we were using instagram
what are some ways that we can make
create requests right we're going to
call them posts what are some ways that
we can make create requests
yeah when you make a new post on
instagram right when you make a new post
on instagram you are creating
you are making a request to instagram
server and you're sending along a photo
you're sending along maybe like a a
caption for the photo
and you you are literally sending that
request to the server
and you create a post right so when you
are on instagram and you make a new post
you are literally creating right and the
method or like the way that you're
creating is something called a post
method posts are typically whenever
you're like filling out like a form
you're probably making a post in the
beginning right because when you're
filling out a form you're sending
data to a server
and the server is going to use that data
to make a new post for you
cool so
when we are
using instagram and we make a new post
we are creating
what are some ways that we can read or
get data
yeah
when you open someone's profile
when you scroll through your feed
when you look at an individual post
those are all
get requests or read requests right
where with a post
we were sending data to instagram to
create our post with a read we're saying
hey give me data i want to see that
photo
right i want to see that that photo give
me that data please go get me that data
how about updating when can we make an
update we want to update something what
are some things that we update quite
frequently if you're using instagram
editing a comment could be can be
updating yep i like the the the likes
right like
does instagram still have likes i don't
remember they said they were gonna get
rid of them right
when you
double tap to like
right or you click the like right
i think australia you got rid of them or
something weird that's what i was
reading the other day um
when you click the the button to like
right
you're updating something on the server
right on the server
your likes went from zero
to one
right they went from zero to one and
when the next person taps the like
somewhere on the server the legs are
going from one to two
each time you tap
or you like you are sending a put
request
and our server set up to hear that put
request and then change the value from
two
the three
so we're starting to see how every
single thing
right every single thing in instagram is
really
is really
crud
when we create a post we're making a
post
when we are trying to look at somebody's
photos or our feed we're making a get
request we're trying to read when we are
liking stuff we're updating the number
of likes we're making a put request to
update the number of likes
and then what would be a delete request
like what would be a delete request
yeah when i delete a post right when i
deleted a post
we have deleted that post that is a
delete request and that post is poof but
um we'll probably see that deletes are
probably more like updates
because they definitely aren't deleting
our data right um but yeah so when we
make a delete request we're deleting
stuff so
every action
every action in instagram is really just
a post a get a put or delete we're
either creating reading updating or
deleting
tech priest hey thank you for the
hydration cheers to you and some kind of
fire thank you for the hydration cheers
to you
so let's go ahead and talk through this
crud stuff a little bit more
just so we can understand
let's go and take a go back to our
lovely white board here
all right
vital water no this is this is um
prime hydration
slogan paul's new brand with ksi
it's actually pretty pretty bomb
pretty tasty
not sponsored
i'm a fan
how much sugar let's see
total sugar is 2 grams
it's 20 calories
has coconut water
bcaas vitamin b
electrolytes and some other fun stuff
tastes pretty good too
i saw it on their podcast
so on their podcast i was like i'm going
to try i saw it at target i got the ice
pop flavor and i got
the lemon lime
it's very sweet
if you do not like energy drinks that
are sweet you might not like it
but the ice pop one
is pretty good
tastes kind of like the rocket pops a
little bit
i'm a big fan of giving people second
chances
and uh i'm willing to give logan paul a
second chance
so i tried prime
we'll see
hashtag not sponsored i promise
people just always are really curious
what i'm drinking so i'm going to tell
you what i'm drinking
all right
so
let's go back to instagram juicebox hey
what's up
um let's go back to instagram for a
second
all right we got we were talking about
influences right i got influence into
buying a drink let's talk about
instagram all right
i go to instagram
i'm in the browser all right i'm in the
browser
and
i
i go ahead and
in the browser i type
instagram.com
what type of request have i
have i made
i've made a get request
exactly i've made a get request
so i typed in
insta.com instagram.com
and i made a
get request
g
e
get not get
all right
get a get request
now
when i make that get request what's the
what's the the the fun term that we use
not not the
this is the
http term right what's the fun term that
we use we're just being cool when we're
just hanging out you know
read exactly
read
our git is our read request
and this request makes it all the way to
our server
right makes it all the way to our server
and
what's what's running on our server that
hears that request what are we calling
it the code that's running on our server
that's set up to hear that request what
do we call in that code
yeah our api
so there's some code running on our
server called our api
and a part of that code
there's something that says all right if
we hear a get
this is what we do
and so what are we going to do when that
get request comes through well let's say
we're we're we're on
let's say we're just on the main feed
what do we have to do
when we when we make that initial get
request like we open up to the main feed
what are we what are we actually getting
like what is that request going to do
it's going to go and get a bunch of data
right so we haven't really talked about
this yet but where is probably most of
our data being stored
yeah from a database so there's probably
like another computer
right think about the database
as another computer
that's holding a bunch of data so this
get request comes in
we go
and get all that data from the database
we're going to be pulling out links to
our photos we're going to be pulling out
the the comments that are on that on
that post we're going to be pulling out
the caption to the post and once we have
all that data
what we're going to do is we're going to
plug it into some
html right so we heard the get request
we're just trying to load like our main
page that has like the first initial
post
right
we made that request to the server the
server heard the request we had to do
some stuff we had to go get some data we
had to plug that data into some html and
once we've plugged all that data into
our html we have all this html that's
ready to go what do we do with all that
html
yeah we respond
we respond
right we respond and that's how we see
the first page of instagram it's how we
see
that first photo
right so we see that first photo now
is a photo of leon
and so when we see a photo of leon what
do we do
don't take so long
we like it exactly we like it so we we
like it
art's everywhere we liked it but little
did we know when we liked it
what happened when we liked the photo
what what happened
it made an update we made a new request
here we thought we were just tapping
hearts but this whole time we are making
requests
now what type of request is gonna be
sent
to the server when we tap the heart
yeah it's gonna be a put request
but this is the nerdy version that's the
http word for it what's the what's the
the cool just hanging out with the
friends you know vibin what's the what's
the word we use for put
yeah update exactly so it's gonna be our
update cool
now what's the code that's running on
our server that here's that put request
or that update request
yeah that code is called our api
and our api is set up to hear that
request and it says oh
you just made a put request
here's what i want you to do when
there's a put request
what we're going to do when we hear that
put request is that we're going to go
back to that database
and we're going to go back to that
database
and leon's likes
we're a thousand
right
but now
we're gonna update them
to a thousand
and one
and if this was really janky
right if we go back then back in the day
and we're going to see some simple apps
that are like this
if this was a janky app that's all we
would do
and then the server
would respond
the server was will respond saying hey
it went okay that request you made good
job it happened it worked
right
it worked that's it
now
an interesting question would be
as at this point in time
would we see anything different like it
still had 1 000 here would we see
anything different we upped it we made a
put request
we updated it from 1000 1001 but we see
anything
no not yet
what would probably happen if we're back
in the day building instagram is that
then
the page would refresh
right the page would refresh
and when it refreshed it would make a
new what
a new request
right we refresh the page refreshing the
page is the same as hitting enter right
that would make a new
get request
all right make a new get request but
that's the that's the
sdhcp nerdy way of doing it we're just
hanging out we're vibing
hey does this work right what we call it
it's it's it's not it's not a get it's a
the read request exactly so read
cool and there's some code running on
our server
that is set up to hear
that get request
and when it hears that get request well
guess what it goes back to the database
it finds leon's likes
but now the likes are 1001.
oh
interesting
so we take that data
we plug that data
into our html file
and then we respond
with that new html
so really took two steps for this to
happen
the liking
triggered a put request
and the only thing it did was update the
data from 1000 to 1001
then our app heard that everything went
okay
and it refreshed the page
refreshing triggered a new
get request
when the server heard that get request
it went back to the database so that it
was 1001 this time and sent that new
updated html
so they really are separate requests
right
eventually we'll be able to do some
stuff that smooths out this process
we're not constantly refreshing the page
to see how things work but at a core
level it's still doing those three
things so far well two things so far get
and put so we still get
and put
what could we do for all right so i i
decide to um
click the trash can
what type of request am i probably going
to make
yeah
now
there's something that had to hear that
click right
something had to hear that click
there's probably an event listener it
was running client client-side that
event listener
made a request on our behalf maybe like
a fetch remember the fetch could have
its own method it could have like a
delete or a it can have like its own
stuff so we can actually on a fetch
update the method so that it's something
else like a like a delete but let's say
we click
we click the button and it makes a
delete request
to our server and remember delete is the
same
is
it's already the words that the cool
kids use right delete is delete
you know you know what i'm saying so we
don't have to have that it's the nerdy
term and and the cool kid term
all-in-one cool
so
our server
has some code
that's running on it
our api
and part of that api
is some code that's set up to hear the
delete
and what do you think the delete goes
and do it does what do you think the
delete goes like we get to control what
happens here we get to control the steps
right
we said all right when you hear delete
this is what i want to have happen we
get to write this code
we get to say you know what all right
go to the database
find
that find the post
delete the post
right and then
tell the browser
it was okay so we wrote out all that
code that could hear the requests
go to the database
delete the post right and then tell the
browser
tell the browser
that the delete request went
okay
and when the browser heard the delete
request went okay what did it do
what did it do
it refreshed
and when it refreshed it made a get
and the get we already wrote code for
the get sitting on the api on our server
to get
here is that request and when it hears
that request it goes to the database
it tries and finds that post but that
post is no longer there so when we send
the html back it's missing
that post
so so far we've seen our
our
rud
we saw our read our update and our
delete
all right we saw our read our update
and our delete
all right what's the last thing that we
haven't done yet on instagram that we
could do red life
create how can we create on instagram
like what do we create like how do we
create what's the thing that we do on
instagram
post exactly posts
so on instagram you can make a new post
right you
upload an image you put a caption
some other stuff and that all goes as a
part of a request
the server and that is a
post
request
but that's like the nerdy http version
we're over here we vibe and we having
some fun
hey does this work what do we call a
post request we're cool kids we don't
call a post to call it a what
a create exactly a create request and so
our server set up to hear this post
and we get to code what happens when it
hears the post
what do you think we're going to do
on our in our code when it hears that
post
what do you think we're going to do
you'll be a thank you for to get the
subs
yeah it's gonna do a bunch of stuff it's
gonna take that info that we sent all
that data
is gonna go to the database right we're
gonna go to our database we're going to
create like a new post in that database
that has all that data
and then we are going to
eventually respond back to the server
telling it hey
that uh post request i mean that that
create request you just made and i'm
cool kid right that create request you
just made it went
okay
right it went okay
and since it went okay
what's the browser probably gonna do
it's going to refresh
and once it refreshes it's going to make
a what
it's going to make a get
or for cool kids a read request
and guess what where our server set up
to hear that get
is going to go to the database
right but this time it's going to notice
that there's an extra post so when it
builds out the html
and it responds with that html
well now that html includes the new post
that we just
created
samurai hey congrats on the freelance
gig
right
so
it's really all just creating reading
updating and deleting creating is like
creating a new post reading is getting
all the information either on the post
that we just made maybe some of the
posts that we updated right we can read
a put or an update is like changing
something right it's not creating
something it's changing something that
already exists our likes went from one
thousand to one thousand and one
right and then deleting is leading we
delete something
and so pretty much every single web app
is just those four things in creative
and create more more and more creative
creative ways but at the end of the day
it's just listening for those four
requests are we creating something are
we reading something are we updating
something are we deleting something if
you can do these four things you can
build the apps of your dreams
right
and the cool thing is
we don't really have to understand
honestly at the end of the day
how this whole thing works because we're
using what i mean it helps if you do a
little bit but the reason we're using a
certain tool is going to help us handle
this whole process
express exactly express
express helps us set up all these
listening for requests
generating the responses request handles
all that piping all that plumbing for us
so we can just write the code that we
want to have happen and so today we're
going to start seeing the basics of
building
this lovely express app
cool close to taking our break
we talked a lot about instagram
some folks asked on office hours if you
want to see my old ass instagram go
ahead and give me a follow on instagram
if you want
i'm gonna be picking five random people
uh i'm gonna start doing the resume
reviews and stuff like that we have a
couple folks that have used channel
points to get them those are gonna start
next week and i'm gonna pick five random
folks that follow me to do a coffee chat
and then to do a review of all their
professional stuff
so if you follow me on instagram i'm
gonna pick five random people and uh
next week we'll do coffee chats and
professional review
uh so some folks want it
the uh the the chance to do a coffee
chat and a review i said all right if
that's what you want boom there you go
follow me on instagram i'll pick five
all right
so when we come back from a break we're
gonna build an app
with express
right
when we come back we're gonna build an
app with express we're gonna talk about
what express is we're gonna see it come
together we might go a little bit over
tonight we got a lot of stuff to get to
still folks so when we come back let's
put this creating reading updating and
deleting into action we're going to just
start off tonight with the with the
reading portion and then on thursday
we'll add more of our lovely crud to the
application so let's take our break top
of the hour five minutes on the clock
all right let's go ahead and
build an app with express well before we
can build an app with express
what the heck is express so
like any
uh enterprising
individual i would go to express's
website uh to figure out what express is
all about right that's what we do we
want to use projects or products that um
that we want to use we go to the website
to figure out what it's about so express
is a fast
unopinionated minimalist web framework
for node.js with a myriad of http method
utility methods and middleware at your
disposal creating robust api is quick
and
easy
oh
god
no god please
no
okay
all right
let's let's see this fast
i think we kind of get what fast means
fast means that it's fast like think
about what we just talked about like
stop stop and think for a second hold on
think about all the stuff we just talked
about like all these requests talking to
databases getting data plugging into
html responding that's happening as i'm
clicking stuff on instagram
and it's it's like literally like coming
back that quickly i'm not sitting there
for a half an hour
right that's pretty cool
and so
express is at least fast right like
when you're making those requests and
getting those responses it's it's fast
like it can do that stuff quickly
cool
onion opinionated
unopinionated all that means is that
express is really only concerned
with
one thing
and that's like helping you with this
paragraph down here
that's our sentence that's all that that
express cares about you oops sorry
omnipedia just means all it cares about
is this this sentence right here right
you can bring any of the other tools
that you want to use you can bring all
the other software you want to use
express doesn't care what you use to do
any of the things that you want to get
done it's just there to help you build
out the api
and it does it in a way that is very
flexible and if you want to do it the
not so express way you are totally free
to do it so it doesn't have any like
strong opinions on how you do things or
the tools you bring to work with express
and then minimalist is exactly that
where it's like all right it's just the
stuff you need for the web framework
just the stuff that's going to help you
listen to requests and generate
responses that's it
cool
it works for node.js so that's the
environment we're using to run our
javascript so express is a fast you can
use whatever you want to use it's very
simple it's just the basics for building
out your api
in node
and so
it has a myriad of http utility methods
myriad just means like a lot
and so all the stuff that we just talked
about the ability to get the post to put
to delete all those are http methods but
then there are so many other http
methods that we need like creating
servers listening to requests generating
responses right so all that stuff that
of like how the internet actually works
well express gives us all these methods
to use
that handles all that stuff for us
and middleware at your disposal
is interesting i can feel the nerds
quaking as i give this definition
but
when we're talking about this process
here
when we're talking about the client
talking to the server and the server
responding we're really talking about
two things
a request
and a response
middleware is everything that's in
between
the request and the response we're gonna
see that there's a lot of stuff that
happens in between a request coming in
and a response going out and all the
tools and things that help that process
between the request and response we're
gonna call middleware
and enables us to create a robust api
quick and easy so the api is just the
code that we're writing
right
code that we are writing
all right
the code that we are writing to listen
to those requests and generate those
responses
cool
all right
i don't know i just can't see this [__]
all right remember
we are using understanding building
tonight we're using and we're starting
that building process and so tonight we
build we're gonna learn how to do the
basics of crud
using express we're gonna get to the
reading portion tonight thursday we'll
add the ud the updating and the deleting
cool
all right there are some key steps in
this process that i put in the slides
we're going to do everything from
scratch together but if you're coming
back to like re-watch this lecture or
you're going to walk through it on your
own there are some key things that we
got we can't forget as we move through
this process
one is whenever we're creating a new
node project specifically that one that
uses express there are a few things that
we have to do
we actually have to create the folder
for the project
we have to move into that folder right
and please don't like
try and type along we're just talking
big stuff today
all right
and then once we have our folder we need
to create our
our npm init when we do npm init what do
we get what happens when we do that
what happens when we do npm init
yeah we get our package.json it helps us
start off our node application it's
going to help us keep track of all the
packages that we need and one of the
packages that we need is going to be
express
and so we're going to install express
and save and not only will that install
express for us but it will save express
into the package.json that is created
when we run this command
cool
once we set up the project we're going
to do a few things
we're going to see that express makes it
really simple to listen for those gets
those posts those puts those deletes
right
those get those post those puts those
deletes
and what we're able to do is when we
hear those gets those post those puts
deletes is we can start to respond
and there's lots of different ways that
we can
respond so we're going to have some code
to help us
hear the request and respond
and we're also going to have the ability
to
not only respond with files but also
maybe respond with some json as
well
cool
eventually we're going to want to put
all this code onto heroku and so here
are the commands to push your code to
heroku
if you're using two-factor
authentication you just drop the i which
we'll see a little bit later today
and that's kind of the key bits it's
time for us to build
our first api
using
express cool
alrighty so in the starter code for
today if you need the starter code for
today it is all on our discord
estimation point discord agreed to the
rules once you agree to the rules
there's a following materials channel
that has everything
in this folder
is a complete version of all the stuff
we're working on today so you don't have
to like frantically copy along or
anything like that let's pay attention
last let's ask questions
let's ask questions
right and do it together so don't you
don't need to have your fingers on
keyboard here i've already given you the
full solution and i will share my code
after class as well so the very first
thing that we talked about was creating
our folder
and what i want to create
is a wrap names api
i want to be able to enter in a rapper's
name
and to get their birth name back that's
the the end goal right be able to enter
in any wrapper and get their birth name
back so i'm going to go ahead and set up
my project first uh i'm going to call
this um
wrap
names
api
right wrap names api just so that i
could have
um
a project
but to do that we have to do makeder so
makers will be named my folder wrap
names api
you can see that i now have this wrap
folder here
and i want a cd into it cd into wrap
names api
you can see that i am now in the wrap
folder
cool
now
once i have this folder the next command
that we saw was that lovely mpm
init
and i'm going to open up the wrap name
so i know it's tiny i'm going to open
this up
and when i hit enter we're going to see
something important happen
we're going to have to walk through kind
of setting up everything
but for me i'm just going to hit enter
on all of these so the name the version
the description the entry point test
command repository keywords author i'm
not going to end this up right now
i'm just going to hit enter through all
of them
and once i hit enter through all of them
you'll see that i got this lovely new
file
right this lovely new file
and in this file has all the stuff that
we just agreed to
all right all the stuff that we just
agreed to so the npm init helps us
create this package.json which will be
the start of our
application
now
once i have the npm init
we can start to actually build out our
application and since i know that this
is going to be an express
application
what do you think i need to install
yeah express i'm going to do mpm whoop
i'm going to do that here
i'm going to do npm
install
express
and i'm going to use the save flag
when i install
it's going to take a little while to go
get that package
it's installed that package
and what we're going to notice is that
my package.json
updated
to include
the express dependency basically saying
hey this application is going to use
express
and here is the version of express that
we are using
and you'll also notice that we have this
lovely node modules folder which is
where like the express stuff actually
sits
right
right where all the actual the actual
files that express comes with all that
middleware and stuff that we talked
about notice how big our node modules
folder we got just by typing in
npm install express
right some folks are saying can you type
it in again this was all part of the
homework so you've already done this if
you've done the homework remember that
the vods are always immediately
available uh even live as we're watching
like the vod is live right now like the
you could literally open up the vod and
rewind a few seconds to see what we just
did so if you
if it went a little too fast just open
up the vod rewind or just watch the vod
afterwards we're not doing anything
super super critical so pay attention
ask questions other folks be able to
answer in chat too if you get a little
lost
cool
all right
so we just
set up our application we created the
folder we did our npm init we go ahead
and we saved express now we need to
actually start creating our server and
so
we've always used a specific file name
so i'm going to go ahead and create a
file called server.js
beautiful touch server.js
and now i have my server
js file
cool
since i know that i'm going to be using
express
for this application
the first thing i'm going to do is make
sure that my server has access to
express so i'm going to do const
express
and i'm going to set that equal to
require
and i'm going to require express
cool
so now my application would have access
to express
remember express
came with all those handy dandy
http methods like the things they're
going to enable us to listen to the
requests the things that enable us to
generate the responses
all that fun stuff yeah just like we did
for figlet yeah we're saying get and use
express
but since express is holding all these
methods that we can use it's often
really helpful to create something
that's going to hold express for us so
we can just actively use those methods
so you're very commonly going to see
something like const app equals and then
we're just going to go ahead and and
set that equal to express
and you can see that we have our lovely
parentheses here meaning that we're
using express and storing it in app
so this now is going to enable us
wherever we see app wherever you see app
further down in my program
ex the app is really just express
so
it's very common to see express apps use
app and wherever you see app right you
just know that we're using express
all right
the very very first thing i want to do
is set up my server
to hear a request
and to generate a response
so
inside of my express server the very
first thing i'm going to do is just set
up that that very simple set of code so
if i want to hear a request and to maybe
let's say respond with an html file
what type of request is that going to be
yeah it's going to be a get request so i
can very cleanly just do app.get
and that's going to be the start
of my request
now the beautiful thing with express is
that we can pass in
what we want to listen for so
if i'm just on my main page
right i'm on the main route
what
would be the path
that i am looking for if i just want to
go to like my main page what would be
the path
exactly be that lovely forward slash and
so with that lovely forward slash
with that lovely forward slash we now
have our route
and once we hear a get request
on that route
right
once we hear a request on that route
what do we eventually want to do
we want to respond with something and so
the beautiful thing with express is that
we have this nice little function that
you're going to see over and over again
right you're going to see this structure
over and over again where we're going to
have
our parentheses our arrow function and
we're going to split the arrow function
and inside of this we're going to have
two parameters
request
and
response
now request and response are just
parameter names but since we're using
express it's kind of like what it
expects right it expects you're gonna
have two parameters and the first
parameter is gonna be everything that
will help us handle the request and the
second parameter is gonna be everything
that's gonna help us handle the response
you can call them whatever you wanna
call them but it's often easier just to
call them request and response and
eventually once we've done this a little
bit you'll see me reduce them down to
req or rec and res for response so if
you've ever seen like rec and res
everywhere it was just short for request
and response
cool
all right so we hear this get request
right
and what do we want to do when we hear
the get request on the main path
what do we want to do
we've heard a get request what do we
want to do
how do we want to respond ah we want to
respond so we'll do response
and how are we going to respond what do
we want to do
what's the response we're going to give
them
yeah we're going to send them a file
like an html file so in beautiful
express form we say response and then
what the heck we want to do which is
just send
file isn't that lovely right we're just
going to say hey we we heard a get
request on the main path
we want to send a response
and the type of response we're going to
do is by sending a
file
cool
now
we actually don't have a file yet
um and we actually haven't told it what
file to use so let's tell it what file
to use and we're probably gonna have to
create that file
now when we're first kind of starting
out
we're going to do something called der
name
and then the name of the actual file
that we're creating
so
index.html is kind of like the normal
thing here
and this dirt name is just saying wait a
minute oh
wherever this wherever the file that's
running is located
that's where we start looking for our
files
right
wherever the the the server.js file is
located
right that's where we're gonna start
looking for our files so
uh if the server.js is like right in the
root of the wrap names api folder then
that's we're gonna start looking for the
index.html
eventually we'll be able to like do some
stuff that makes this path stuff a
little bit easier
but for now it's going to be the dur
name and you'll notice that
vs code tries to help me here so i do my
underscore underscore and you see that
their name pops up i'm just going to use
that and there we go so i'm saying hey
start wherever the server.js file is and
then find the index.html but
i don't actually have the index.html
file yet so let's go ahead and create
that how can i create a file
just like a normal html file
touch
index.html
beautiful
we'll see that i created my index.html
file here
let's go ahead and just set this up so
i'll do html i'll select html5
and then i'll just put an h1 in here
that's going to be wrap
names api
cool
so now i have an html file that's in the
same directory as my server.js
it looks like our server is pretty much
set to go
except it needs one other thing we set
we set up the server but what do we need
to tell the server to do
yeah we need to tell it to listen
so we're going to do app dot listen
beautiful and it's going to listen for
one very specific thing it's going to
listen for
a port number so in the past we've just
kind of like plugged in like 8 000 or
something like that but we're going to
do something a little bit different
we want to start being able to use some
some variables here and there so i'm
going to put a variable in here called
port
and i'm just going to come up top
and do const
port equals
8 000.
down here we're going to use port and
when we hear that the server is running
we want to we want to like actually let
us know that the server is running so
we're going to do like the same kind of
arrow function we're going to see all
throughout express
and we're just going to go ahead and do
a console log
and we're just going to console.log that
uh the server is running so let's go and
do
let's do some ticks actually
the server
is running
[Music]
on
let's go ahead and do port
you
better go
catch it
can it be any number yes it can be any
number
cool
all right so much cleaner with express i
think so too
all right so we set up our application
we have our initial get request we've
told the server to be up and running on
port 8000
i think we're in a good spot to maybe
test and see if this is
working
uh so let's go ahead and just do node
server
dot js
and look at this lovely console log
we're getting now no longer it's just no
longer just like the the missing repel
here but we actually have this lovely
now console log that says hey the server
is running on 8 000 you better go catch
it uh and so let's go ahead and go test
on our localhost
000 and see if our server is running
localhost 8000 boom
localhost 8000 is up and running we can
see that we made a request to our server
the server heard that we were asking for
the default path and it responded with
our html file first try although we're
going to have a lot of things that
aren't first tries tonight because we
gotta we gotta play with some things
cool
so now we have a very simple server set
up
it's sending an html file
it's looking good
um but we wanted to create a what
tonight
we didn't we didn't come here just to
serve up html files
we came up here to create our own apis
and the apis that we've all used before
don't respond with html files the apis
that we've all used in the past have
responded with what
json exactly so
let's go ahead and create a different
path
let's go ahead and do
app.git same thing as always right now
i'm almost i'm always going to type it
out
we're going to listen for a different
path this time though let's just call it
slash api
and we're going to have our normal
lovely
callback where we're going to have our
requests and our response parameters
cool
and inside of here
when we hear somebody request
on the api route
we're going to send them a what
a response
so we're gonna do response
but and this time instead of sending
file what do we want to send
green scar i said in all caps json
yeah so we'll just say json that's it
isn't express amazing hold on
we wanted to send files so we just said
send file
you want to send json so we just sent
json
what
this is amazing
it's amazing
all right so now we're going to send
some json but we don't really have any
json descend
um
let's create an object we don't we
actually don't have any json descent we
don't have any objects that we can send
their way so i'm just going to go up
here and create an object
and i'm just going to create like a
normal object for 21 savage
so i'm going to const
savage equals i'm just going to create
an object
and then we're going to have um
i'm gonna have
let's do age
okay let's do let's do age
let's do
birth name
and let's go ahead and do
um birth
location
cool so we're going to have their age
their birth name and their location
i know that 21 savage is 29 i believe
yeah 20 maybe 30 29 or 30. um but their
birthday in location we have to look
this up real quick so let's let's go to
wikipedia
uh
here we go 21 savages wikipedia
they are 29
and here's their birth name
let's go and join that
and so we'll go ahead and put that in
there
and their birth location was
london
england or it should be uk london uk i
don't know what did wikipedia say
london england all right
cool
also can we just say that sir savage
21st gave us one of the best bars in rap
history
i didn't know nothing about no visa i
was in the park with the gang ah
ours
that was the other one too
i just listened to it the other day too
oh
how about all this uk
you know that these aka gonna spray
spray
ours
bars
all right so now we have
we we have we have an object here
we have an object here that has an age
of 29 a birth name a birth location
and we can just respond
with savage
yeah
cool
so
let's um let's test this i also want to
change this running on i want to change
this to on port just so that it says the
port um
let's go ahead and start stop our server
right let's stop our server
and let's run it
uh oh i didn't save oops let me save the
file
stop the server i'm just doing control c
to stop the server
and then i'm going to run i'm just
noticing notice i don't actually type
out node server anymore
all right unless i don't type in node
server anymore i just hit up arrow
because it's already in the history of
my terminal here
cool
hit enter
server is running again
let's go to our browser let's make sure
that locals 8000 is still running why
wouldn't if we just go to slash api
oh
it gives us the data that's cool
um
blah hey what's up let's go hey vlog
it's great to see you hope you're doing
okay
blah in the house let's go turn up
um
all right so we have
the api what have we used in the past
that makes it easier
to uh visualize like the data we're
getting back from apis
postman yeah postman we've always used
postman to look at our apis uh so let's
use postman again here
now one thing that you'll notice
is that
right now i can do let me let me refresh
this here let me just let me just uh
cancel here
i was testing this earlier
don't save all right i was testing this
earlier let's go ahead and do localhost
slash api
and you can see i'm getting the data
back
now
my application
is running
locally on my machine
to be able to access
the server
that's running locally you're going to
need something a little bit extra let me
show you real quick let me i'm going to
do something on my end
i'm going to quit an application running
on my computer and then no i can't i
can't hit that endpoint anymore because
it says desktop agent is unavailable
right
desktop agent is unavailable which means
that i have
postman their desktop agent running on
my local machine
it's called the desktop client or the
desktop agent right
and once i'm running the desktop agent i
can make requests to my local host so i
can turn back on the desktop agent
right desktop agent is now back running
and
if i give it a second
or if i refresh there we go you can see
that i now have the ability to ping it
so if you're like leon how how can you
like actually get access to the
localhost through postman because i'm
using the web api i'm using the web
right you want to download the desktop
agent yeah the desktop agent from
postman
so now you can see that my api is
working look at this let us go
right i'm able to
um
paste in uh the api route
when i do that i get i get this lovely
bit of data back
so it is working we got a very very
simple
api running with just two get requests
we have one get request for the main
page and we have another get request for
our api
pretty nifty
but um
we're not here just for one rapper
right we're not here for just one rapper
we want to be able to have multiple
hours we want this to be like a real api
so let's go ahead and build this out so
that we can have more than just
one wrapper let's let's have at least
two rappers
and maybe an unknown we could just do
like dialog dial on dialog for unknown
um we could do that yeah i i see chat
so let's go and do that let's go ahead
and just create some simple json here
um for two wrappers and then dylon for
everyone else
cool
so let's go and set this up
um this should just be
21 savage
and then
this should just be like an object right
so we should have 21 savage and it's
just going to be our object so we'll do
like our colon and then we'll create our
object here
we'll do that
i've got my little quotes here
we'll just tab all this in
and then we'll close our object
and then we'll have another one
that's 21 savage is just an object
holding age name birth location
let's just copy this
and we'll do another one that'll be uh
chance the wrapper
the rapper
cool chance the rapper i believe they're
one year younger so i'll be 28
and then let's go ahead and grab that
real quick from wikipedia
cool chance the rapper please say the
wrapper
they are oh they're 29 as well
29 and
chancellor bennett
cool
chancellor bennett is the birth name
they're 29 as well though so let's go
and do 29.
birth name chancellor bennett
and birth location i do not know how to
spell illinois
i'm just going to copy it
yoink
chicago illinois
there we go
and so
now we have 21 savage we have chance the
rapper and then we can just do like uh
i don't know
like just like a a catch-all which will
be dailon
which will be dailon so let's just go
ahead and copy chance
and we'll change this to dylon
cool and dylon
um we'll keep him at 29. birth name
cylon
and birth location will also be
xylon cool
all right
now we got some real data here we got
this lovely
savage that is opening and closing
that has um
21 chance the wrapper and dailon in it
uh let's change this from savage to
rappers because it's more than just 21
now
so now we have wrappers and so on our
api route let's not return savage let's
return wrappers
cool
we have to uh restart our server here
let's do control c to restart
and then i'm going to run node server
again just to get it running
and let's go check on postmen and see if
we're getting anything back on this api
route
um let's go to postman
locals 8000 api let's send and boom
we're getting all of our data back look
we're getting 21 savage and their birth
name and location chance the wrapper and
a dilon
so we now have the ability to build out
a pretty simple
api
right we we have some data that we've
created that's just an object
we have the ability to make a get
request for an html file if we want it
or a json if we want it
and um
yeah it's looking good so far
um
however
we haven't actually been able to do what
what haven't we been able to do
with what we have here we're this is
this is all fine and dandy but the api
we want it to be like if we wanted to be
useful what do we need
we want this api to actually be useful
we don't just want to like send them a
bunch of wrappers what do we want to do
what do we want to do
yeah we won't be able to like send them
a specific rapper back
right we want to be able to hear the
requests
and send a specific rapper back to them
so i want them to be able to ask for 21
savage and get all 21 savage information
i want them to be able to ask for chance
the rapper and get all a chance to wrap
her stuff back i want them to be able to
ask for somebody else and just get dylon
back cool
so let's go ahead and think through this
right now we're just responding with
with
rappers
but what if there was a way
that the user could tell us
what rapper they are looking for
what is the interface
that our users could use
to tell us
what rapper they cared about
your jump into a form but a form comes
later what's the interface that we've
always used for our apis
what's the interface that we've always
used for apis whenever we're trying to
get stuff from the cocktail database
whenever we're trying to get dogs photos
we're always using the url so there has
to be a way
that we can use this url
to request a specific person
and so there's something really nifty uh
when you're using express that you can
do
so we can do this right here
and i can put a colon and i can say
rapper
name
so now when somebody
gives uses that url
they can put
a wrapper name
in the url
and i can yink that if i want it right i
can yink it so let's see if we can yoink
this wrapper name so now
that url is part of the what
there's only two things there's a what
and a what
yeah that url is part of the request so
we can do
uh request
and then what are we looking for on this
request what would wrapper name be
it's a what
yeah it's a query parameter uh it's a
query parameter so we can just say param
that's that's the shorthand in in
express param
right or
uh param sorry
we have our request we can look at the
params or the query parameters
right
and which query parameter do we want
which query parameter do we want
wrapper name
cool because right here when you have
this colon that's how we let express
know hey this is going to be a query
parameter that's on the url so
let's see if we can just console log
this and let's see if it works
i have no idea if it'll let me console
log it here
we're playing fast and loose
we're going to save it let's restart our
server leon why are you using nodemon
because i want to get used to starting
and stopping my servers i want to feel
it i want it to be real
i want to be real nodemon just does too
much for me in the beginning so i like
to i like to i like to get the feel for
i don't want to be in an interview
without nodemon needing node mod you
know what i'm saying
cool all right so i stopped my server
let's start it
let's let's um let's just use uh postman
and see if we can do that
so api slash
uh 21 savage
let's send
and it looks like we're getting all the
data here um
let's go ahead and make sure that this
refreshed
and the cool thing is
that made sense oh okay that made sense
right we got all the data still did we
tell the api to respond with something
other than all the data
no we said we said we still said send
all the dates i thought i got got but i
didn't i got i thought i thought i got
got but i get you know what i'm saying
all right so i still totally sent all
the data but what i did say is
console.log the query parameter of
rapper's name
and look what we got down here folks
we were able to pull that query
parameter
off of the url
let's go
let's go we want to say request params
wrapper name let's try it again let's
try to try it again let's try a
different wrapper
you chance the wrapper
please say the wrapper
cool chance the wrapper let's send it
we got all of our data because we
haven't told it not do anything yet we
said give us all the data but if we go
back and look at our console log
[Music]
look at this go
chance the wrapper
we're grabbing the information that's
coming along from the url
cool
so now
not only can we make a request
we can grab the query parameters from
the requests
why aren't we having to do like the
percent 20 because express is handling
it for us let's go turn up
cool
all right
um
all right so now we're able to make a
request to our server
we're able to grab the individual
wrapper
off of the request
um we should probably just create a
conditional now
right like if the wrapper is inside of
our like object
give it the info from that object and if
the wrapper doesn't exist in our object
we should just give it dialon
so let's go and just create a
conditional here
um
i'm going to comment this out real quick
i'm going to say if
the name of our object rappers
if rappers
um
[Music]
rapper
name
what the heck is this doing right here
what am i saying by using these square
brackets here what the heck am i doing
yeah this is this is the bracket
notation but it's still enabling us to
look at the object it's enabling us to
grab the object and use its key
and so the reason why i do this instead
of like dot notation with the object
right is because if we look at our
we look at our object properties
21 savage has a what
chance the wrapper has a what
what what's in there that would give us
trouble if we just use dot notation
yeah there are spaces in here and so dot
notation doesn't play well with the
spaces
and so what we're going to do
is use this bracket notation because
what we can do is we can plop in a
rapper name we can plop in
uh 21 savage right
and if 21 savage
exists inside of rappers right like if
21 savage
if 21 savage exists inside of rappers so
21 savage exist inside of rappers so if
21 savage
existed inside of rappers what would
this evaluate to
would this evaluate to
it exists so that's a truthy statement
yeah that's it evaluate the true so
instead of hard coding in 21 savage here
i'm just going to use the um the
parameter that came from the query
parameter let's just go ahead and call
this um
let's go ahead and call it const
rap
rapper's name i'm just trying to show
you that these are all different
variables
so i'm going to say const rapper's name
so like their name
and i'm going to plug that in here
because rapper's name is going to pull
the wrapper name
off of the query parameter
right and then i can just look and see
alright is rapper's name
inside of my object of rappers if it's
true
let's respond
with some json but our json is just
going to be whatever this value is
all right i'm going to respond with
whatever 21 savage information was
and if it's false
all i'm going to respond with is
island
right
dialogue
so all right what we're going to see is
all right if the wrapper that they
passed in as part of the query parameter
exist
then let's just respond with all that
rapper's information so if they passed
in 21 savage
it should respond with this object if
they passed in chance the wrapper it
should pass this object if they answer
any other rapper
it should just be dilon
cool
all right um
i'm gonna get rid of this comment so we
don't need it here because that'll just
bother me all right so we save it
let's uh chill our server let's restart
it
and let's go back to postman to see if
this is working
all right
api slash chance the rapper
let's send it
let's go
it's just giving us
chance the rapper's information now
first try let's go
let's try 21 savage
let's go
let's go 21 21 21
and then um
let's go ahead and just type in
something random
and we should get dailon
all right 29 dailon dailon
let's go
let's go turn up
all right so it's working
uh
they typed in a url so we saw the urls
right we saw the urls we saw um let's go
back to 21. let's do chance the wrapper
actually let's do this let's do the real
way first one then i'll show you what i
think is going to happen
chance the wrapper beautiful
we got chance's information back but
look at this path
look at this url
localhost 8000
slash api slash chance the rapper
chance the rapper's on the end here
cool
if we look
we're talking about localhost 8000 slash
api
and then chance the rapper was here so
wherever i see rapper name it's actually
chance the wrapper
all right it's actually chance the
rapper so
requests because that this is part of
the request we want to pull the
parameters off what parameter we want to
pull off we want to pull off the wrapper
name parameter so whatever was here aka
chance the wrapper
this request params wrapper name grabbed
and we stored it in the variable
rapper's name
so wherever i see rapper's name wherever
i see rapper's name it's now chance the
wrapper so it's as though i plugged in
chance the wrapper here
and since chance the wrapper exists
inside of our rapper's object
we grabbed this specific part of it
and we responded with it
respond it with that information
what's the significance of the colon is
to let us know that that's a query
parameter it's not part of the path it's
the query parameter that's being passed
in with the path
why use postman because that's what i
used to test all my apis including the
apis that we're building now let's go
right so i'd like to use the tool that
i'm going to use for in the future just
showing you like the basics of how it
still works
cool
all right
so now we saw not only ability to
respond with some html
we also saw the ability to respond with
some json
um
we
have it running but there's one there's
one thing that um
some folks mentioned
right some folks mentioned that there's
maybe like a mistake that our users
might run into
what's a mistake that our users might
run into
yeah case sensitivity
so let's go back and try in postman
let's do uh chance the rapper with the
capital
t and we get dilon
that's not what we want
so let's handle this um
let's handle this let's handle the case
sensitivity
all right well first let's make all
these lowercase
savage
chance
wrapper
and uh dielon so now at least i know
that all these are our lowercase
and
what can i do
over here with my query parameter
what could i do with this query
parameter
yeah two lowercase all right
two
lower
case beautiful two lower case
all right so now no matter what i type
in it's going to convert it to lowercase
and then it'll do the comparison so
since all of our wrappers names are now
lower case no matter what they type in
will be turned to lowercase to find the
match
all right let's stop and start our
server
let's go back and try this out chance
the rapper with the capital t
give it a second
chance the rapper with the did i restart
it i did why didn't this work
oh
i got got why didn't this work
i didn't save all right let's save it
let's start and stop stop to start the
server
let's go back
all right let's make the request
all right now we're getting chance the
rapper's information
let's let's change the casing here a
little bit
boom still getting chances information
it doesn't matter casing no longer
matters now and what the user puts in
they'll get the right info second try
cool
oh
some folks notice an error here
um look
this guideline
does this dilon exist as a property in
my object anymore
no this is this is lowercase dialon
this is uppercase dialon this would this
would not be found
uh this would throw an error so let's
make sure that this is lowercase as well
like the dilon property is lowercase d
here
cool
all right so now we should be all set
we're able to um
have all this wonderful
wonderful code served up
uh and i actually have
a client-side bit of code that i wrote
that can make requests
uh to this api
and so we're running a little bit of
time here so i'm just gonna i'm gonna
yoink the code so
um here is my rap names api that this
server serves up so if we go back to
localhost 8000
right we go to loghost 8000 we have this
lovely wrap names right this rap names
api
and um
what i want to be able to do is i want
the user to be able to enter in the name
so i don't i don't want them to be like
up here like the users could come up
here and do slash api
slash chance
the wrapper right they could do that and
get the data but that's not what we what
we've been doing
right
right this is this is not this is not
what we've been doing we're going to be
able to enter in the name and then get
the data back from our api and then
display that in the browser
so let's do that real quick i actually
have the code already written out but we
can we can probably just code this out
pretty quickly so
uh in here we know that we're going to
need
an input
and we know that we're going to need an
h2
to put their birth name let's just plug
the birth name back into the dom
right
what about spaces express is handling
the spaces for us
yeah
cool birth name
we have
yeah so we have the lovely ability to
put it back into the burp put the birth
name into the dom
let's save this
let's make sure that this is still all
connected well and good
all right we can see our input and we
can see the place to put the uh the
birth name
cool
what if chance the rapper was entered
then that wouldn't work yeah that
wouldn't work not the way we have right
now we don't have all the uh
all the time in the world to handle all
the edge cases let's not be code weenies
cool uh we need a button that's a good
idea
button
cool
give
all right
a man
needs
a name
cool there we go
now we'll have the ability to do that
if we go back and we just refresh
we can see that we can kind of get away
with it when we're just updating uh html
all right so we have the ability to
click a button
uh when the user clicks the button we
want them to be able to grab the val the
name out of here
right
and we want them to be able to make a
request to our server so
what's the only thing that can listen
for this button click and grab the value
out of this input
an event listener and that's all what
event listeners means we need what what
type of javascript
we need some good old client-side
javascript so
does our rap names api have a javascript
file like client-side javascript yet
no
so let's go ahead and create that i'm
going to do maker
js folder
i'm going to cd into that js folder
and i'm going to use touch to make a
main
dot js
cool
if we look we have a lovely js folder
and we have a main js file cool
and one mistake the very first time i
made this application
uh is that is my javascript file linked
in my
html nope
let's go ahead and and do that
let's go ahead and do script
and let's just inside the script we'll
have our source
set that equal to
main.js
cool
yes main.js nice
all right and let's see if it's actually
working
in the main.js let's just do working
or let's do an alert sorry
cool
all right let's make sure our server is
running
we're we're in the wrong folder we're
inside the js folder we've got to go up
a level cd dot dot
all right now we're in the main wrap
names api folder let's start our server
node
server.js
all right we're running
cool
let's refresh
all right
let's do the inspect here
fail to load
status of 404
hmm
what were we trying to do
what was i just trying to do
i was trying right now
right what was i trying to do
i was trying to serve up
this client side code
where's my mouse
is there anything right now
that's listening for that request
is there anything that would hear that
request
no
and do i want do i want to serve up the
client side code i thought that we said
that we wanted to have any client
from anywhere
be able to access
our code
right
so we got to remember that there's a
difference between us serving up
client-side code and like any
client-side code being able to access
our server
right because right now we're not
serving up any of this client-side stuff
you got right we served up the html file
but we don't have our like lovely public
folder right
private jen hey what's up hope you're
doing well thanks for stopping by
all right we we we are we we haven't
served up any of this stuff
what i want is any client to be able to
access
our server
right not just us serving up and giving
them a front end and a back end i want
any client to be able to access this
but right now
right now
our code our server only exists where
where does our server only exist at the
moment
yeah it only exists locally on our
machine
right on our our our our lovely port
right it only exists on our machine
if i want you to be able to build a
client
that can access this
what do i need to do
i need to host it
right
right now this is not hosted and i don't
want to build out the code that serves
the front end i want you to be able to
build the front end code that works with
this
back end
right so what i can do is i can actually
host
this api code
and then you all can build the front end
that will consume
this code so
all i have to do is since this is
already working we already know that we
can
make requests to the api i want to host
it on heroku just a quick easy way to
get it hosted to put it on somebody
else's computer for us all to access so
if i
go back and go to my slides i've
actually given you
the very simple directions on how to get
this onto roku
before i put it onto heroku i just want
to put it on github just so that
everyone can access the code if they
want so instead of me just giving you a
zip file could i maybe just give you a a
lovely
uh get
a link so let's go ahead and do that
real quick i'm just gonna go ahead to go
to github
and i'm gonna go ahead and create a new
repo and we're going to call this rap
names
class
fun
cool
create the repository
remember it always gives you this lovely
like things that you can follow
if you need to
do we have a git repository let's look
let's look
ls-la
we don't have a git repository
let's go ahead and do that git
repository first
get init
now if we were to do that lsla we'll see
that we have a lovely
git repository
right we have one now
cool
next thing on the list it told us to
create the readme we'll save that for
later we'll make our first commit and
then we'll switch the branch to main
all right i'm going to copy that let's
go ahead and do
git
add dot we're gonna add all of our
changes
we're going to commit all of our changes
first commit
working
api
cool
we're going to
change our branch to main
and then we have to add this origin and
then push it so if you haven't watched
our git and github class i'm just kind
of following through the instructions
here
but we had a full class on git and
github boom
i see everybody you're jumping ahead
you're jumping in i know what you're
going to see we got it we got to show it
before we can fix it
all right we added our origin and then
we're gonna do the get
push
u origin
main
all right we look at push u origin main
was the last command and we're gonna see
something really interesting that
happens
when i see something really interesting
that happens anymore look at this ready
it's actually pretty quick
[Laughter]
um
but what what did we just push
we pushed a lot of data five five
megabytes we pushed a lot of data
i was hoping that it would i was hoping
for some some some dramatic
like slowing down here uh but what did i
do
when i pushed i pushed everything that
was in my
[Music]
known modules folder
right
i pushed everything that was in my node
modules folder
right and so
that could be pretty expensive i don't
know some of us are are on slower
internet connections and that could be
too much
right
and so in the future what we want to use
is a get ignore file
and so we can go ahead we're in our main
route let's do
touch get ignore
cool
and in this get ignore file
we can put our node
modules folder
right
now next time i push
next time i push i won't be pushing up
the whole node module look how look how
big this thing is look at all the stuff
that's in here
look at all this stuff oh look at all
this stuff we just pushed up to github
that's a lot
we go back and we look at our github
repo
a lot of stuff that we that we pushed up
there all this stuff got pushed we don't
need to do that each time
right and so i just used my touch
command to make the git ignore
file and then i put node modules in
there and and then we'd be good
right
now what we could do is we could like
fix all this we could bring it all back
down we could like change it but for now
let's just know that that that's there
right that that we can use the git
ignore file if we want
um for right now i'm just going to
remove the get ignore
[Music]
just so i don't have to redo everything
or we can just redo it let's redo it
let's run it back
uh
i'm actually gonna remove my get folder
don't ever do this
cool i'm gonna remove my git folder
let's do ls-la
we don't
i didn't force it one second
there we go
now if we do an
la i don't have my git anymore
i don't have my get i don't have my git
repo anymore remember don't do this
we're just we're just we're really over
time today so i'm just i'm just showing
it to you really quickly uh we we got
rid of the get folder let's go ahead and
just create a new repo
let's not even worry about it we're not
there yet
brand new repo
rap names
too there we go wrap names two
there we go we created it we know that
our
node modules
is in our git ignore so we're all good
all right we're all good
let's go ahead and just follow through
our steps again
getting it
first right
get add dot
hit commit
we are
way over time
cool
let's go ahead we've made our commit
we've added we've made our commit
we want to make sure we change our
branch
boom get branch main
beautiful let's add our original
let's go ahead and do our get push
pull
and this time if we go back and look and
we refresh
we'll see that the node modules were not
pushed up
right
the node modules are not pushed up
beautiful
so
we saw that we can take our code
that we had
here we put it on github but now i want
to put it on
roku
okay
and so we actually have the commands
here to put this code on heroku
and we're going to have some errors
right out the gate
we're going to put it on heroku and
we're going to see one thing really
really important
and that thing that we're going to see
is that
right now
our code
is only set up to handle
one port if we look
we come back to our server.js
you see right now we're only set up to
handle port
what 8 000
and there's a good chance that heroku
might not want to use this port
right and so there is one thing that we
can do just a little modification here
just a little modification that we can
do and we can do this lovely
process
dot env
dot port
or
so what this is and we're actually we
should capitalize this
cool
what this is going to do
all right what this is going to do
is going to say hey
use the port that heroku is trying to
make us use
and if that's not the case or that
doesn't exist
use the port that we've already defined
cool eventually yeah we'll have an env
file and all that fun stuff but this is
our first time seeing it
right it's our first time seeing it so
we can have just one little thing that
will stop us from having an error when
we go to heroku that's it
all right now let's follow the
instructions that are in the slides
we're gonna do heroku login i have two
factor authentication so i'm not going
to do the i
i'm just going to do heroku login
and i'm actually going to do that off
screen
my heroku is already logged in
let's go ahead and do heroku log in
one second folks
i actually don't think it would expose
anything but just to be safe
all right it took me to the browser i'm
logging into the browser
and now i am logged in
and i'm coming back
cool
all right we're gonna it's gonna be like
three more three more minutes and then
we'll be done so we'll take a break but
we'll be done in like three minutes all
right so now i'm logged in
uh and we can follow these next few
commands here
uh create we're gonna create the name of
our app so we'll do heroku create
and let's call this
rap
names api
fun
cool
so you can see right now that heroku has
created an app for me called rap names
api fun
right
wrap names api fun
and what we want to do now is take our
code that we have here and put it on
heroku server so we have one other thing
we want to do before we do that which is
we want to tell it like
what file to run
right we we've been doing the node
server js on our end
right we've been doing the node server
js on our end we have to tell heroku hey
if you want to run this code it's node
server js
right
so we'll just do this lovely little echo
here
you'll see that it actually created a
file called a proc file
and that proc file is just saying hey
heroku this is how you start this server
boom that's it
and then we have the last thing here
which is to
uh add our changes commit them and then
push to roku instead so we're gonna do
make sure this is all saved
hit add dot
hit commit dash m
roku changes
and then we're going to do get
push
heroku
master get push heroku master
uh oh
uh-oh
push oh sorry main
[Laughter]
main it's been a long day hit push roku
main
boom it's pushing up to rookie literally
it's taking our code
and putting it on heroku for us
look at this
it's taking all the code that we wrote
today
and putting it up on heroku for us
and cool so now we have this lovely
rap names api
and it actually gave us the full url
rap namesapifun.herokuapp.com
if we were to go here
we actually have our full app hosted
right it's now hosted
we can go to postman
and let's like let's hit up our api
route
api slash let's do 21 savage
boom
we're getting 21's info back let's go
ahead and do chance the rapper please
say the rapper
with the messed up t
boom we're getting chances stuff let's
go
let's go
it's live we online let's go
and um i actually have some client-side
code that i already wrote right
um that i that i gave you as part of the
package for today
so we have our index.html which is
already set up we have our client-side
javascript which was already set up with
the fetch and everything
but instead of it being this path going
to the one that we just created
and i'm going to open this client-side
code
so this client-side code has nothing to
do with the server we just created it's
purely client-side code
i can put in 21
savage
and the result
should show up if i did everything
correctly let's see
uh oh i didn't put in the uh we didn't
do cores yet
we didn't do cores oh i'm running out of
time let me do one fix let me do one fix
let me do one fix
so it works right we're able to get it
from the
from the we're able to use postman we're
able to get to work
but since i'm requesting it locally
right since i'm requesting it locally uh
it's it's not going to work
right so this was a
local file
right this is a local file
right and this is a local file our
server is not set up to handle the local
file
right we haven't told it to use cores
yet we told it to use cores yet
so let's go ahead and just fix that real
quick give me two seconds two seconds we
can do it all right
uh cool thing about express
is that it comes with well there's a
module that we can get that'll handle
all the cores errors for us so npm
install
cores
and we're gonna save it
cool so now we have an npm package
called cores
that will save it for us
uh that we can that will handle all the
core stuff for us
let's go ahead and do
const we'll call it course
we'll say require
course right so now we have that package
and then we just need to tell our app to
actually use it so app dot use
course
there we go
all right so now our app should be able
to handle all of our cores errors no
problem
all right let's do
get add dot get commit
dash m
fixed cores errors
all right we added it we committed it um
get push
roku
main
all right it's taking all this new code
it's sending it out to heroku for us
it's setting us up to roku for us
cool
is going to tell us when it's done
buildings remember all this code is
going to our server
on heroku
for free this is a free account you
don't need to pay for heroku all right
so it should be updated let's check
postman real quick make sure the api is
still working let's put in 21 savage
boom it's working
come on local client-side code
let's refresh just to make sure 21
savage
let's click
let's go
so now
any client in the world
no matter if it's your client-side code
running on your tablet your phone your
computer this client-side code can now
use the code that we have running on our
server
to get the wrap data back
it's hosted on heroku
we can consume it from any client
oh
let's go
we went a little over a little over
tonight went a little over but we got it
working so real quick whirlwind and then
guess what we're gonna do on thursday
guess what we're gonna do on thursday i
won't wait over when a half an hour over
i don't think that's way over i want a
half an hour over so we come back on
thursday we're going to run it all back
and we're going to add a little bit to
it but let's just take a quick peek
before we we end the day
we have our lovely modules that we're
using express and cores and we set up
our port we have a lovely object that we
can use that we're going to respond with
from our api
we set up to hear two get requests a get
request on the default path
right that serves up an html file
we also have a lovely
get
that has an a different path with a
query parameter we're able to grab that
query parameter from the url
we're able to use that query parameter
to see if it exists
that name exists in our wrapper's object
if it exists in our wrapper's object we
send back that rapper's info
if we don't have that rapper's info we
send back dailon dailon dailon
we set all this up to listen to not only
our port but also any port that heroku
might give us
and then we pushed it all to github just
for funsies just so we could have it
there and we pushed it to
heroku and now that it's on heroku roku
has given us this lovely url and we can
all i can share this url with you all
we can share this little url and you can
all
access the app that we just built you
could ping it you could use it in
postman to get data back or you could
build your own client side that would
make a get request to this server now i
know we're probably going to
ddos it because there's so many of us
here but
what i want you to do between now and
thursday
right
between now and thursday i want you to
look at all the code that we did tonight
i know it's a lot i know we pushed i
know we stretched but we had a lot of
really good wins
it's it's down there's too many people
hit it too many people pinged it you
probably brought it down don't worry
um
we're able to build full stack web
applications let's think about this holy
smokes we're able to build out a server
that can listen for requests that can
generate responses
what i want you to do between now and
thursday is come back to this code
dig through it make it make sense watch
the vod if you need to
and then try building your own
client-side code that pings
my server
right try pinging my server to get the
data back so that means you have to
build a fetch
right
cool
all right when we come back on thursday
we're going to run all of this back i
know we ran out of time at the end so
we're going to definitely run it back
we're going to
uh see all of these requests again we're
going to build it over again we're going
to get into it then we're going to add a
few extras we're going to add an update
maybe a delete right we're going to have
more fun with this we're going to keep
building it but as of right now you can
build full stack web applications i hope
tonight you saw that it's not too much
it's just gets it's just post it's just
puts it's just the leads we see that
express does what we tell it to do send
file send json what
all right uh we're not gonna do a raid
because we went way too over we're just
gonna end it tonight please if you have
a little bit more juice left in here
take a look at this code run it back
between now and thursday and everyone
have a wonderful wonderful night i
actually think people want the channel
points
let's do a raid just because i know
people want the sweet sweet channel
points let's do that hold on i don't
have anybody queued up though have a
good rest of your night thank you for
giving me a little bit more time thank
you for uh sticking through the the
little little overage here
but on thursday we're gonna have a lot
more fun we're gonna run it back if it
didn't make sense that's all right we're
gonna have some fun we're gonna build it
out again and we
will add to it all right folks have a
wonderful rest of your night peace
be well